08

Contents
03 Our track record 04 Our structure 06 Executive review 10 Group overview 18 Normalised earnings 19 Historical review 20 Corporate governance 26 Directorate 31 Annual financial statements 119 Notice of annual general meeting 123 Shareholders' information 125 Proxy

Key outcomes
Normalised earnings 297,5 cents or R3,6 billion ­ down 10%

Dividend
141,5 cents or R1,7 billion ­ unchanged

Intrinsic value
2 348 cents or R28,4 billion ­ down 31%

Where we are

Core challenges

Notwithstanding unprecedented global market turmoil that threatens to spill over into South Africa, RMBH's franchises remain in good shape, testament to the strength of our diversified earnings base which withstood some big setbacks during the year.

1
Growth in Southern Africa remains our highest priority. Given the slow down that the massive international financial deleveraging is bringing about, this will require financial prudence in ensuring that our balance sheets remain robust as we seek to exploit the significant potential still available here.

2
On the back of the maturity and capacity of our franchises we are seeking to establish beachheads in selected growth markets outside SA. This will require prescience to ensure that our core competencies not only suit the structure and economies of the new markets, but also provide us with a sustainable competitive advantage.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 01

The RMBH Group is a holding company of some of South Africa's leading financial
services companies. Its portfolio of businesses, which consist of some of the region's number one brands, provide a comprehensive range of products and services to the South African market and niche products in certain international markets.
02 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Our track record
Annual compound growth
Per share Net asset value Normalised earnings Dividend Share price (closing)

Since 1993 10 years

30% 27% 29% 19%

13% 19% 22%
5%

5 years
12% 14% 21% 15%

Normalised earnings sources

RMBH's attributable share of normalised earnings was derived from

the following areas of business:

2008 2007

%

Rmillion Rmillion change

FirstRand Banking Group FNB RMB WesBank Other

1 511 1 381

9

882 1 141

(23)

168

271

(38)

23

183

(87)

Momentum Group Insurance operations Asset management operations Other

428

338

27

83

96

(14)

77

58

33

Discovery Group FirstRand Limited

54

158

(123) (132)

(7)

RMBH's share of FirstRand's normalised earnings

3 103 3 494

(11)

Discovery Group OUTsurance RMB Structured Insurance Glenrand M.I.B

161 334
72 (11)

­

282

18

69

4

2 (>100)

RMB Holdings Limited

(82)

137 (>100)

Normalised earnings of RMBH Group

3 577 3 984

(10)

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 03

Our structure

RMBH is the holding company of some of South Africa's leading financial services companies. Our effective interests after consolidation eliminations (see note 41 on page 100), include:

1

EFFECTIVE INTEREST 32,7%

FirstRand Limited (the "FirstRand Group")
The FirstRand Group is a uniquely structured financial services group with critical mass in both banking and insurance. For regulatory oversight purposes, its operations are housed in two subsidiary groups under FirstRand Bank Holdings Limited and Momentum Group Limited.

Banking
The FirstRand Banking Group provides customers with a comprehensive range of products and services according to specific target market segments.

Assurance

First National Bank ("FNB") services the retail, business and medium corporate segments. In addition it provides transactional services to the Group's large corporate clients.

Rand Merchant Bank ("RMB") is responsible for the large corporate segment, to which it provides loans, value added advisory and structuring services.

Momentum Group targets individuals in the middle and upper income markets, principally under the Momentum Life, Momentum Wealth, Momentum Health, RMB Asset Management and Unit Trust brand names.

WesBank is South Africa's dominant movable asset financier. The balance of the Banking Group includes its African banking subsidiaries and Banking Group Treasury.

2

EFFECTIVE INTEREST 27,1%

Discovery Holdings Limited ("Discovery")
Discovery services the health care funding and insurance markets in South Africa and the United Kingdom. It is in the process of winding down its health insurance business in the United States. Discovery is pre-eminent in the development of financial services products and operates under the Discovery Health, Discovery Life, Discovery Invest, Vitality, PruHealth and PruProtect brand names.

3

EFFECTIVE INTEREST 61,9%

FirstRand Short-term Insurance Limited ("OUTsurance")
OUTsurance is a direct personal lines and small business short-term insurer. Pioneers of the OUTbonus concept, it has grown rapidly by applying a scientific approach to risk selection, product design and claims management.

4

EFFECTIVE INTEREST 80,6%

RMB Structured Insurance Limited ("RMBSI")
RMBSI holds both short-term and life assurance licences. It creates bespoke insurance and financial risk solutions for South Africa's large corporations by using sophisticated risk techniques and innovative financial structures.

5

EFFECTIVE INTEREST 15,8%

Glenrand M.I.B Limited ("Glenrand M.I.B")
Glenrand M.I.B is a risk advisory business with core interests in short-term insurance broking, risk advisory services and the provision of claims and policy administration capabilities.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 04

Executive review

GT Ferreira Chairman

Peter Cooper Chief Operating Officer

As RMBH turned 21 and reached majority, we discovered that the world of grown-ups can indeed be a cruel and hostile place...

Dear fellow shareholders
A year ago, in the 2007 report to shareholders, we drew attention to the turmoil that had been visited upon global financial markets. We highlighted that the resultant contagion would also impact on South Africa and that given the challenges ahead, a group such as ours would need to proceed with circumspection.
However, we could not imagine the extent of the carnage that would be visited upon global financial markets. In the year to 30 June 2008, such markets continued to experience unprecedented turmoil, with significantly differing viewpoints as to how long it will last and what still lies beyond the horizon. The on-going stress in the international credit markets continued to create weakness and volatility while higher inflation, resulting in slowing economic growth, raised recession concerns in some of the major industrialised economies.
In South Africa, inflation continued to rise, mainly driven by energy and food prices. This, combined with a cumulative 250 basis point increase in interest rates (on the back of a similar rise in the previous year), put severe strain on consumers. As a result, retail asset growth slowed and bad debt levels increased which, as expected, negatively impacted retail lending portfolios.
Corporate demand for credit continued to show resilience with capital expenditure, infrastructure development and corporate action providing good growth opportunities for the Group's corporate and investment banking divisions. Certain segments within the SME space are feeling the impact of the credit cycle, however, large corporate balance sheets remain strong and relatively under-leveraged.
The local equity, currency and interest rate markets were characterised by increased activity which assisted the fixed income and proprietary trading areas of the Group and increased trading volumes and structuring opportunities. Severe dislocations in the international equity markets resulted in significant losses in FirstRand's international trading portfolios.

06 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

The insurance businesses showed good earnings growth despite tough conditions characterised by lower equity markets and increased interest rates. Given Group practice to invest significantly all of the capital deployed in our assurers in cash and near-cash instruments, they were largely spared the capital decay experienced by their peer group.

Financial outcome
In the main, the Group was able to avoid the contagion arising from this unsettled financial environment. However, as discussed in our review of the outcome at the FirstRand Banking Group, we were unable to isolate the greater Group results from two specific factors, namely:

· A dramatic increase of impairments in retail lending operations; and

· Trading losses arising from a particularly severe international dislocation in international equity markets.

The severity of these two factors resulted in the first ever year on year decline in earnings reported

by RMBH, namely:

% change on

Year ended 30 June 2008

Rm

prior year

Attributable earnings Headline earnings Normalised earnings

4 122

­

3 714

(5)

3 577

(10)

Our franchises remain in good shape and while suffering two big setbacks, produced normalised earnings of close to R3,6 billion.

On a per share basis this translates to: Year ended 30 June 2008

Cents per share

% change on prior year

Attributable earnings Headline earnings Normalised earnings

345,9

(1)

311,7

(6)

297,5

(11)

Note: The differences in the percentage change in the per share calculations arise as a result of the fresh issue of RMBH shares during the year to fund part of the Discovery acquisition.

Sources of income
Substantially all of our earnings are derived from our investments in separately listed FirstRand (FirstRand Banking Group and Momentum), Discovery (now held directly after its unbundling from FirstRand during November 2007) and our portfolio of short-term insurance interests (OUTsurance, RMB Structured Insurance and Glenrand M.I.B).
Within these businesses RMBH has built up a comprehensive range of financial products and services, giving us a diversified base of earnings predominantly sourced from Southern Africa. This year, with its unprecedented turmoil, was a severe test of the resilience and diversity of our portfolio. It is gratifying to record that our franchises remain in good shape and for the year ended 30 June 2008 not only produced normalised earnings close to R3,6 billion but enabled us to return R1,7 billion to shareholders by way of dividends.
Last year we indicated to shareholders that in our view RMBH had reached a point in its development where it would be appropriate to give consideration to further investment opportunities and to broaden our portfolio. Clearly, the mayhem of the last year did not make for an environment that was conducive to building out the portfolio. However, we do believe that the premise on which we based our investment thesis (maturity of our core portfolio, ungeared state of our balance sheet and good dividend flows) remains intact. Accordingly, we continue to explore appropriate investment opportunities ­ albeit with a renewed awareness that the massive deleveraging experienced in global markets must impact on global growth in the medium term with a consequential knock on effect on the attractiveness of investment opportunities presented.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 07

Executive review (continued)

Group capital position
At the centre, RMBH has relatively little borrowings. At the end of June 2008 our borrowings amounted to some R1,2 billion (2007: R0,4 billion), directed largely at the emerging markets portfolio and funding raised for the Discovery acquisition.

At present the only material funding requirement identified for the 2009 financial year is some R150 million required to support OUTsurance's international expansion. We have sufficient banking facilities available to meet this. At this time we do not foresee any further capital requirements from the other companies in which RMBH is invested.

In the final quarter of 2006 RMBH, with the help of independent investment counsel, built a bespoke emerging market portfolio of selected listed financial services equities, primarily in India, Brazil and Turkey. RMBH has invested R500 million in the portfolio. The portfolio has been designated as a "fair value through profit or loss" asset for accounting purposes and gains and losses are being recorded against income. At 30 June 2007 the portfolio was valued at R656 million. The portfolio has not entirely avoided the volatility and contagion highlighted in our commentary above. At 30 June 2008 it was valued at R648 million. The after tax loss included in RMBH's normalised earnings amounted to R7 million (2007: profit of R154 million).

The intrinsic value of the Group's investment portfolio was not spared the decline in equity markets experienced during the period under review. The values at year end may be summarised as follows:

As at 30 June Rmillion

2008

2007 % Change

Market value of listed interests (FirstRand, Discovery, Glenrand M.I.B) Directors' valuation of unlisted interests (OUTsurance, RMBSI) Net cash resources/investments

25 790

38 353

(33)

3 128

2 769

13

(527)

283

­

Total intrinsic value

28 391

41 405

(31)

Per RMBH share (cents)

2 348

3 486

(33)

At 30 June 2008 RMBH's market capitalisation amounted to R25,4 billion or 2 100 cents per share (2007: R39,0 billion), representing an 11% discount (2007: 6%) to the Group's underlying intrinsic value.
Dividend payment The Board has resolved to declare a final dividend of 72,5 cents per share (2007: 80,0 cents).
Such final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 69,0 cents brings the total dividends for the year ended 30 June 2008 to 141,5 cents (2007: 141,5 cents). This represents a dividend cover ratio (on normalised earnings) of 2,1 times (2007: 2,4 times).
Outlook for the coming year
We expect that global and local capital markets will continue to see unusually high levels of uncertainty and that conditions for the South African consumer will remain difficult. It is anticipated that credit market conditions will continue to be challenging. Factors such as the impact of the recent electricity price increases and the new municipal rates structures currently being introduced will add further pressure to consumers' cash flow.
At FirstRand:
· The Banking Group will continue to actively manage its credit portfolio in the light of strained macro-economic conditions. The focus is on the appropriate level of risk appetite that is set in

08 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

origination strategies and the implementation of credit portfolio hedges where appropriate. Stable or possibly declining interest rates are expected to provide some support to improvements in credit conditions in the second half of the year; and
· Momentum Group will continue to experience the effects of continuing investment market volatility. New business volumes and the retention of existing clients will remain under pressure as the levels of disposable income continue to decline. The good new business growth experienced over the past few years, together with the ongoing product, channel and geographic diversification, and recent improvements in the relative investment performance, should benefit Momentum's future earnings growth.
We believe that the South African interest rate cycle may have reached its peak, but it is difficult to predict or time the end of the current credit cycle. Our Group is actively managing its businesses to ensure that they are well positioned to benefit quickly as the cycle improves.
Of our other investments, both Discovery and OUTsurance are well positioned in their respective market segments and should continue to deliver superior growth.
Given current economic uncertainties we are of the view that it would not be prudent to set narrowly circumscribed growth targets. We do however believe that, given the diversified and inherently superior nature of our portfolio of businesses, the Group should over the medium term revert to delivering real growth in earnings.
A welcome and a word of thanks
The Group survived the mayhem visited upon our markets only as a result of the efforts of all our management and staff. On behalf of the Board of Directors and the shareholders, we thank them sincerely for their contribution.
Adrian Arnott has retired as Company Secretary. We thank him for his service and wish him well. The new incumbent, Anthony Maher, knows that he has big shoes to fill.
During the year we welcomed two new directors to the Board. To Sonja Sebotsa and Leon Crouse, we extend a special welcome as they join us on the journey. Denis Falck has retired from active business and resigned from our board. We thank him for his wise counsel, patience and support over the last seven years and wish him well in the future. To our other fellow directors, thank you for your support.
Finally, to you our fellow shareholders, a special word of thanks. Without your support, the RMBH Group cannot grow and prosper. We shall continue to strive to reward your faith by ensuring that you receive the best possible returns on your investment.
For and on behalf of the Board

We expect that global and local financial markets will continue to experience unusually high levels of volatility.

GT Ferreira Chairman Sandton 17 September 2008

P Cooper Chief Operating Officer

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 09

Group overview
FirstRand Group

The FirstRand Group consists of a portfolio of South Africa's leading financial services operations, the most important of which are First National Bank (retail and commercial banking), Rand Merchant Bank (investment banking), WesBank (instalment finance) and Momentum (life insurance).

Paul Harris Chief Executive Officer, FirstRand

R10,6 Normalised earnings

billion

RMBH interest

32,7%

While the negative outcome in its trading portfolios and significant cyclical increases in retail bad debts were ameliorated by the diversified nature of the FirstRand Banking Group's portfolio, the severity thereof brought about a 13% decline in its normalised earnings.

Momentum Group demonstrated remarkable resilience in a difficult trading environment, increasing earnings by 20%. The FirstRand Group achieved a normalised return on equity of 22% per annum (2007: 29%).

Summary of FirstRand Pro-forma Financial Results*

Year ended 30 June

2008

2007

%

Rmillion Rmillion Change

Normalised earnings for ordinary shareholders derived from: ­ FirstRand Banking Group ­ Momentum Group ­ FirstRand Ltd
(inc. pref. div. payments)

8 814 10 089

(13)

2 004 1 668

20

(420)

(448)

6

Group normalised earnings

10 398 11 309

(8)*

Attributable to RMBH

3 103 3 494

(11)*

* FirstRand presents its normalised earnings calculation on a pro-forma basis as if the unbundling of Discovery had taken place at the beginning of the 2007 financial year (ie Discovery is excluded from both years). As RMBH continues to hold an interest in Discovery, such adjustment is not appropriate in its case. This difference, together with various consolidation adjustments, gives rise to the differing rate of change in earnings between years in the two groups.

10 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

FirstRand Group ­ FirstRand Banking Group

The FirstRand Banking Group provides customers with a comprehensive range of products and services according to specific target market segments.

Sizwe Nxasana Chief Executive Officer, FirstRand Banking Group
The FirstRand Banking Group reported normalised earnings of R8,8 billion representing a 13% decline from the prior year. An otherwise satisfactory performance by the Group's Banking operations was severely diluted by two issues: A Dramatic Increase of Impairments in Retail Lending Operations The significant increase in interest rates combined with higher inflation placed serious strain on disposable income and eroded household affordability levels. This resulted in a deteriorating consumer credit cycle which severely impacted the Banking Group's retail lending activities with bad debts increasing from R2,6 billion to R4,7 billion. While the absolute level of bad debts in the year under review highlights the severity of the current cycle, it is not a reflection of structural asset quality issues evident in other markets (eg. sub-prime exposures). However, at the outset the Bank did underestimate the overall level to which interest rates would rise. At present FirstRand Banking Group's bad debt experience is in line with expectations, is correctly priced for and is not out of line with its SA peers. Equity Trading Losses Losses in RMB's equity trading division of some R1,4 billion (net, after offsetting a R0,5 billion profit made in South Africa) (2007: R1,4 billion profit) occurred at a time of extreme disruption and dislocation in global equity markets and were compounded by the portfolio being long of small and mid-sized international equities. A hedging strategy employing major indices proved ineffective as investors moved from illiquid stocks
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 11

Group overview (continued)
FirstRand Group ­ FirstRand Banking Group (continued)

to the highly liquid indices. In the face of worsening global markets FirstRand Banking Group aggressively de-risked its exposure to these portfolios. The Banking Group is satisfied that its risk management processes were robust and capital allocation to these activities was within normal thresholds, but recognises that the absolute appetite for risk was inappropriate.
FNB, the commercial and retail bank, achieved a 10% growth in normalised earnings to R4,7 billion, in an operating environment that was particularly challenging in the second half of the financial year. FNB's solid performance can be ascribed to a number of operational factors, including its strong franchise in the commercial and corporate segments (now contributing more than 50% of earnings), as well as its diversified retail portfolio which (whilst the consumer segment experienced a slow down in growth) allowed the mass and wealth segments to continue to perform well. The transactional and deposit businesses continued to grow, albeit at a slower rate than the prior year and a continued focus on efficiencies resulted in FNB's cost to income ratio reducing by a further 2,9% to 56,9%.
The Group's investment bank, RMB, reported normalised earnings of R3,0 billion for the year to June 2008, 22% lower than the previous year. Given the high base created in the previous year (when earnings increased by some 80%) and especially given the significant underperformance of the offshore equities trading activities highlighted above this is seen as a satisfactory performance. The overall impact of the equity trading loss

was mitigated to some extent by Investment Banking, Fixed Income Currencies and Commodities ("FICC") as well as Private Equity significantly exceeding their prior year outcomes.
WesBank, the vehicle finance business' overall profitability was impacted by significant increases in bad debts in its local lending businesses. The compound effect of negative gearing resulted in its book growth slowing. WesBank's decision to exit its Australian operations has also had a material negative impact on earnings. In total normalised earnings declined by 38% to R0,6 billion.
FNB's African subsidiaries performed well, growing normalised earnings by 14% to R0,5 billion on the back of good advances growth, excellent growth in deposits and continuing efficiency gains. Transaction volumes also grew strongly across all of the subsidiaries. Unlike SA, the bad debt experience remained stable over the past year.

12 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

FirstRand Group ­ Momentum Group

Momentum Group targets individuals in the middle and upper income markets, principally under the Momentum Life, Momentum Wealth, Momentum Health, RMB Asset Management and Unit Trust brand names.

EB Nieuwoudt Chief Executive Officer, Momentum

Momentum's normalised earnings exceeded R2 billion for the first time, increasing by a very pleasing 20%. The ongoing capital management programme has resulted in a significant increase in the return on equity to 30,3% for the current year (2007: 25,3%).

The results from the insurance operations were strong, with earnings increasing 27% to R1,5 billion. Momentum Insurance benefited from a turnaround in new initiatives, better than expected risk profits and the positive contribution from new business written in the past few years. The FNB insurance operations produced excellent growth in earnings mainly due to good claims experience.
New business volume growth remained strong, especially in the insurance operations where total new business inflows increased 40% to R28,9 billion. Whilst the recurring premium new business volume growth has slowed, risk new business reflected good growth. The value of new business showed a solid increase of 14% to R0,6 billion.
The earnings from asset management operations declined by 13% to R282 million. There was a strong turnaround in investment performance, with RMB Asset Management ranked 4th out of 11 managers over 12 months and 24 months to June 2008 in the Alexander Forbes Global Large Manager Watch.
Momentum's capital management mandate, which requires that discretionary shareholders' assets be invested in cash or near-cash instruments, has largely immunised the earnings on shareholder assets against the volatility experienced in investment markets. Including the impact of higher interest rates, the investment income earned on shareholders' funds increased by 34% to R0,3 billion. This increase was achieved despite the impact of the R0,7 billion special dividend paid to FirstRand in October 2007.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 13

Group overview (continued)
Discovery Group

Discovery services the health care funding and insurance markets in South Africa and the United Kingdom. It is in the process of winding down its health insurance business in the United States. Discovery is pre-eminent in the development of financial services products and operates under the Discovery Health, Discovery Life, Discovery Invest, Vitality, PruHealth and PruProtect brand names.

Adrian Gore Chief Executive Officer, Discovery

R957 Normalised earnings

million

RMBH interest

27,1%

14 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Discovery's core purpose of "making people healthier and enhancing and protecting their lives" has manifested in a consumer-engaged approach to life and health insurance and financial services, which has created significant competitive advantage, enabling strong organic growth across its businesses and a wide range of opportunities for the future.
Discovery's established businesses have performed particularly well, despite a challenging economic environment. In addition, during the year under review, Discovery launched two substantial businesses, Discovery Invest and PruProtect (the UK life insurance joint venture with the Prudential plc), and commenced the wind-down of Destiny Health, its US health insurance subsidiary.
Annual recurring new business increased by 18% to R4,8 billion (excluding Destiny Health). The embedded value grew by 16% to R16,4 billion (despite an increase in the risk discount rate of 2,25% due to increasing interest rates). The quality of the businesses is clearly illustrated by positive experience variances of R728 million that arose during the year under review ­ a clear indication of performance exceeding expectation.
Operating profits of established businesses ­ Discovery Health, Discovery Life, Vitality and PruHealth ­ increased by 39% to R1,8 billion. After the costs of launching Discovery Invest and PruProtect, and the wind-down costs of Destiny Health, operating profits increased by 13% to R1,3 billion.
RMBH included R161 million (being its share of earnings for the last eight months of the financial year) of Discovery's earnings in its normalised earnings. Prior to that Discovery's earnings were included in FirstRand's earnings.

OUTsurance Group

The OUTsurance Group conducts short-term insurance activities through direct short-term insurer OUTsurance (wholly-owned) and Momentum STI (a 50:50 joint venture with the Momentum Group).

Willem Roos Joint CEO, OUTsurance

Howard Aron Joint CEO, OUTsurance

The OUTsurance Group posted satisfying results for the year with gross premiums increasing by 20% to R3,6 billion (2007: R3,0 billion). Headline earnings increased by 21% to R567 million (2007: R467 million). These increases were driven by reasonable new business volumes and better than expected claims ratios. At 30 June 2008 OUTsurance had total assets of R3,1 billion (2007: R2,7 billion) with a solvency margin of 39,2%.

R574 Normalised earnings

million

RMBH interest

61,9%

Even though the insurance industry experienced poor underwriting results in the motor portfolios, Personal OUTsurance continued to produce strong results. New business volumes came under pressure from a significant slowdown in vehicle sales and consumer spending on durable goods. The business unit continued to achieve excellent client service levels and sound profitability.
Business OUTsurance, which focuses on small and medium commercial enterprises, had a particularly pleasing year, exceeding expectations on both premium growth and underwriting profitability.
Momentum STI provides personal and commercial insurance products through the broker distribution network of the Momentum Group. Momentum STI is expected to show strong growth in premium income and attain profitability during the 2009 financial year.
OUTsurance is planning to market pure risk life products directly to consumers during the 2009 financial year, using the existing operational infrastructure.
OUTsurance launched You.Insured ("Youi"), an on-line personal insurance offering in Australia during August 2008. Youi incurred costs of R51 million during the financial year, all of which has been expensed against current income. The Group has injected capital of A$30 million into the Australian operations during the 2008 financial year, and a further A$30 million is expected to be committed during the 2009 financial year.
Due to the significant start-up losses that Youi will incur, the growth in the OUTsurance Group's earnings for the next financial year will be muted when compared to its historic growth trajectory.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 15

Group overview (continued)
RMB Structured Insurance

RMBSI is active in the short- and long-term insurance sectors. It creates customised insurance and financial risk solutions for large corporates by using innovative financial structures.

Gustavo Arroyo Chief Executive Officer, RMB Structured Insurance

Normalised earnings RMBH interest

R93 million
80,6%

A core element of RMBSI's business is the provision of specialist insurance services in the furniture retail sector. The introduction of the National Credit Act (the "NCA") and higher interest rates had a dampening impact on this area of business. The resultant decline in consumer spending had a negative impact on RMBSI's client base and resulted in lower earnings being reported from this source. Notwithstanding, RMBSI was able to increase headline earnings by 3% to R93 million (2007: R90 million). RMBH's attributable share of RMBSI's normalised earnings for the year amounted to R72 million (2007: R69 million).
Upon the advent of the NCA, a large furniture retailer with whom RMBSI has historically had a strategic alliance, re-assessed its operations and decided to conduct its insurance activities on an in-house basis. Until RMBSI's new initiatives in the retail sector bears fruit, this is likely to place considerable pressure on earnings.
In a new initiative launched during the year, RMBSI entered the underwriting manager agency ("UMA") market. The initial response has been gratifying. The deterioration in credit markets will place pressure on corporates to optimise their utilisation of cash and credit lines. RMBSI is well positioned to assist in this process.

16 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Glenrand M.I.B

Glenrand M.I.B is a risk advisory business with core interests in short-term insurance broking, risk advisory services and the provision of claims and policy administration capabilities.

Andrew Chislett Chief Executive Officer, Glenrand M.I.B

Normalised earnings from continuing operations
RMBH interest

R20 million
15,8%

In the year under review Glenrand M.I.B substantially completed the restructuring of the Group into a risk advisory business with core interests in short-term insurance broking, risk advisory and claims and policy administration capabilities.
The Group's exit from the pension fund administration business became effective at the beginning of February 2008 with the final transfer of the residual assets being imminent.
The continuing businesses produced 14% growth in revenue in difficult market conditions. Notwithstanding, Glenrand M.I.B returned a disappointing overall loss of R82 million (2007: profit R81 million) arising primarily from increased losses in the discontinuing pension fund administration business of R102 million (2007: R36 million) and impairment of assets.
Good progress has been made in restructuring the Group's continuing cost base.
RMBH's share of Glenrand M.I.B's normalised loss amounted to R11 million (2007: profit R2 million).

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 17

Normalised earnings

The Group believes that normalised earnings more accurately reflect operational performance. Headline earnings are adjusted to take into account non-operational and accounting anomalies. These adjustments are consistent with those reported at 30 June 2007, except for the treatment of profit on private equity realisations.

Computation of normalised earnings
for the year ended 30 June
Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders RMBH's share of adjustments made by associates:
Treasury shares Adjustment of listed property associates to net asset value IFRS 2 share based expenses
Adjustment for: RMBH shares held by policyholders Group treasury shares IFRS 2 share based expenses
Normalised earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Weighted average number of shares in issue (millions) Normalised earnings per share (cents) Diluted normalised earnings per share (cents) Dividend cover (relative to normalised earnings)

Notes
1 2 3
4 5 3

2008 Rm
3 714
157 ­
43 3 914
(48) (290)
1 3 577 1 202 297,5 297,5
2,1

2007 Rm
3 900
169 8
121 4 198
96 (312)
2 3 984 1 188 335,4 335,3
2,4

% change
(5)
(7)
(10) (11) (11)

Sources of normalised earnings
for the year ended 30 June

2008 Rm

2007 Rm

Normalised earnings from: FirstRand Discovery Glenrand M.I.B OUTsurance RMB Structured Insurance

3 103 161 (11) 334 72

3 494 ­ 2
282 69

Other net income/(funding costs)

3 659 (82)

3 847 137

Normalised earnings

3 577

3 984

Notes: 1. Deconsolidation of treasury shares and "deemed" treasury shares by FirstRand and Discovery to account for:
· the Discovery BEE transaction; · FirstRand shares acquired to hedge liabilities under staff share schemes; and · FirstRand shares held as policyholders assets by group insurers. 2. Adjustment of listed property associates from net asset value to fair value in order to match the policyholders liability which is based on the fair value of the units held. 3. Adjustment for IFRS 2 share based expenses. 4. Deconsolidation of "deemed" RMBH's treasury shares held for policyholders by group insurers. 5. Adjustment to reflect earnings impact based on actual RMBH shareholding in group companies ie. reflecting treasury shares as if they are minority shareholders.

% change
(11)
(>100) 18 4 (5)
(>100) (10)

18 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Historical review

1999 Rmillion

Ordinary shareholders' funds Capital and reserves Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Normalised earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders

5 128 5 228
621 621

Per share data

cents

Earnings per share

54,8

Headline earnings per share

68,2

Normalised earnings per share

68,2

Dividend per share

25,1

Dividend cover (times) ­ headline earnings

2,7

Share price history

cents

Share price ­ Closing Share price ­ High Share price ­ Low Volume of shares traded (million)

998 1 510
630 178,9

2000 Rmillion
5 786 5 886
810 810
cents
83,3 88,7 88,7 30,0
3,0
cents
1 010 1 435
806 236,0

2001 Rmillion
9 178 9 278 1 184 1 184
cents
93,5 112,8 112,8
36,0 3,1
cents
1 265 1 280
900 254,3

2002 Rmillion
10 331 10 431
1 687 1 687
cents
124,3 142,0 142,0
44,4 3,2
cents
1 082 1 340
900 251,0

2003 Rmillion
11 293 11 293
1 812 1 812
cents
122,8 152,5 152,5
55,0 2,8
cents
1 065 1 170
870 224,5

2004 Rmillion
12 277 12 277
2 145 2 145
cents
173,7 180,6 180,6
77,5 2,3
cents
1 615 1 650 1 030 298,4

2005 Rmillion

Ordinary shareholders' funds Capital and reserves Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Normalised earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders

13 861 13 861
2 628 2 397

Per share data

cents

Earnings per share Headline earnings per share Normalised earnings per share Dividend per share Dividend cover (times) ­ headline earnings

272,0 221,2 201,8
94,0 2,4

Share price history

cents

Share price ­ Closing Share price ­ High Share price ­ Low Volume of shares traded (million)

2 225 2 380 1 500 267,4

2006 Rmillion
14 117 14 117
2 979 2 992
cents
267,8 253,7 251,9 113,5
2,2
cents
2 470 3 120 2 150 329,2

2007 Rmillion
16 623 16 623
3 900 3 984
cents
349,7 332,0 335,4 141,5
2,3
cents
3 286 3 850 2 335 334,3

2008 Rmillion
20 306 20 306
3 714 3 577
cents
345,9 311,7 297,5 141,5
2,2
cents
2 100 3 900 2 035 469,0

% compound

% increase

growth

over 2007 1999 ­ 2008

22

17

22

16

(5)

22

(10)

21

(1)

23

(6)

18

(11)

18

­

21

(36)

9

1

11

(13)

14

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 19

Corporate governance
Attitude to governance
RMBH is a diversified financial services group that currently holds significant investments in five entities (collectively referred to as the "Group") as set out on page 4. RMBH subscribes to a set of values which seek to foster integrity, innovation, individual empowerment and personal accountability. While the RMBH board is responsible for the maintenance of sound corporate governance, it believes that its implementation is best managed at an operational level. Consequently each principal Group entity has its own board of directors, executive team, audit, risk and remuneration committees that monitor operations and deal with governance and transformation related issues. RMBH strives to apply a consistent policy of good corporate governance throughout the Group. The board and all its committees annually assess their effectiveness. The directors of RMBH and the various Group entities endorse the Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct (the "King Code 2002") contained within the King Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa 2002.
Classification of directors The basis on which directors have been classified in terms of their independence in this annual report is as follows: · executive directors are employed in a fulltime capacity by RMB Holdings; · non-executive directors are those who, while not in the fulltime employment of the Company, are members of the management committee or
who have been nominated by a shareholder owning more than 20% of the company; and · independent non-executive directors are all other directors irrespective of the period during which they have been members of the board. No director has an automatic right to a position on the board. All directors are required to be elected by shareholders at an annual general meeting.
The board of directors
Composition RMBH has a unitary board with a non-executive director as Chairman. The roles of Chairman and Chief Operating Officer are separate. The board comprises nine members of whom eight are non-executive directors. Four of the non-executive directors are also independent directors as defined above. Further details are disclosed under the section "Directorate" on page 26. The directors are individuals of a high calibre with diverse backgrounds and expertise, facilitating independent judgement and broad deliberations in the decision-making process. There is an appropriate balance of power and authority on the board. The board each year evaluates its composition to ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience. New directors are subject to a "fit and proper" test. An informal orientation programme is available to incoming directors.
Board responsibilities The fundamental responsibility of the board is to improve the economic prosperity of the Group. The board has a fiduciary duty to act in good faith, with due care and diligence, and in the best interests of the Group and its stakeholders. It is the primary body responsible for the corporate governance values of the Group. While control is delegated to the management committee in the day-to-day management of the Group, the board retains full and effective control over the Group. The board's responsibilities include the appointment of the executive officers, approval of corporate strategy, risk management and corporate governance. The board reviews and approves the business plans and monitors financial performance of the Group and implementation of the strategies. A formal board charter, as recommended by the King Code 2002, has been adopted. The charter includes a code of ethics to which all directors subscribe. The code deals with duties of care and skill, as well as those of good faith, including honesty and integrity and the need to always act in the best interests of the Company. Procedures exist in terms of which unethical business practices can be brought to the attention of the board by directors or employees. The soliciting or acceptance of payments, other than declared remuneration, gifts and entertainment as consideration to act or fail to act in a certain way are disallowed. The Group does not make political donations.
Term of office Non-executive directors retire by rotation every three years and are eligible for re-election. Re-appointment of non-executive directors is not automatic. The retirement age of the directors is set at seventy. The Chief Operating Officer has an employment contract that can, subject to fair labour practices, be terminated with one month's notice.
20 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Board meetings The board meets once every quarter. Should an important matter arise between scheduled meetings, additional meetings may be convened. Before each board meeting, an information pack, which provides background information on the performance of the Group for the year to date and any other matters for discussion at the meeting, is distributed to each board member. At its meetings, the board considers both financial and non-financial qualitative information that might have an impact on the stakeholders in the Group. Board members have full and unrestricted access to relevant information and may, at the cost of the Group, seek independent professional advice in the fulfilment of their duties. Details of the board meetings held during the year ended 30 June 2008, as well as the attendance by individual members are disclosed in the section "Directorate" on page 30.
Board committees
The board has established three sub-committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities in meeting its corporate governance and fiduciary duties. There is: · a management committee; · an audit and risk committee; and · a directors' affairs and governance committee (also responsible for remuneration matters). Each committee has a charter, which sets out the objectives, authority, composition and responsibilities of the committee. The charters of these committees have been approved by the board. All the committees are free to take independent outside professional advice, as and when required, at the expense of the Group. The names of the members of the committees, details of committee meetings held during the year ended 30 June 2008, as well as the attendance by individual members are disclosed in the section "Directorate" on page 30. The committees, with a summary of their charter objectives, are as follows:
Management committee The RMBH management committee comprises four members, three of whom are non-executive. It is responsible for implementing the strategies approved by the board and for managing the affairs of the Group. The committee is also responsible for: · the development, implementation and monitoring of strategies and policies of the Group; · the optimisation of the Group capital base and its financial resources; · the timeous and transparent communication with all stakeholders; · ensuring best practices in the terms of corporate governance across the Group; · managing the Group image and reputational issues; and · optimising overall Group profitability through synchronising the strategies of the operating units of the Group and leveraging off Group strength.
Audit and Risk committee The committee was re-constituted with effect from 1 July 2008 to conform to the provisions of the Corporate Laws Amendment Act of 2007. It now comprises of a minimum of two independent members. The Chairman is an independent non-executive director. The committee's objectives are to assist the board of directors in fulfilling its fiduciary duties with regard to: · the safeguarding of the Group's assets; · the financial reporting process; · the system of internal control;
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 21

Corporate governance (continued)
· the management of financial and non-financial risks; · the audit process and approval of non-audit services; · the Group's process for monitoring compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to it; · the Group's compliance with the corporate governance practices; · the business conduct of the Group and its officials; and · the appointment of the auditors and the evaluation of their services and independence. The independent auditor attends all audit committee meetings and the annual general meeting of shareholders. The partner responsible for the audit is required to rotate every five years. The committee meets with the auditors independently of senior management. The chairman of the committee attends the annual general meeting. Directors' affairs and governance committee The committee comprises all of the non-executive directors. It is chaired by the Chairman of the board. The committee's primary objectives are to assist the board in discharging its responsibilities relative to: · its determination and evaluation of the adequacy, efficiency and appropriateness of the corporate governance structures in the Company; · board and board committee structures; · the maintenance of a board directorship continuity programme; · the self-assessment of the effectiveness of the board as a whole and the contribution of each director; and · ensuring that succession plans are in place for the key posts in the greater Group. The committee is also responsible for determining the remuneration of the Chief Operating Officer. Fees payable to non-executive directors are approved at the annual general meeting of shareholders. Details of directors' remuneration for the period under review can be found on page 28 of this report.
Company secretary
The company secretary of RMBH is Anthony Maher, a Chartered Accountant (South Africa). He was appointed by the board during March 2008.
Auditor independence
The Group financial statements have been audited by the independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. RMBH believes that the external auditor has observed the highest level of business and professional ethics. It has no reason to believe that the external auditor has not at all times acted with unimpaired independence. Details of fees paid to the external auditor are included on page 87 of this report.
Risk management and internal control
RMBH recognises that managing risk and compliance is an integral part of generating sustainable shareholder value and enhancing stakeholder interests. The board and the boards of the Group companies are accountable for establishing, maintaining and monitoring the effectiveness of the processes of risk management and systems of internal control applied throughout the Group and in any joint ventures and associations to which the Group or any subsidiary is party. The Group's risk management and control framework covers the following key aspects: · identifying key performance indicators; · identifying significant business risks, both financial and other; · maintaining proper accounting records; · ensuring the reliability of financial information used within the business for decision-making or for publication; · ensuring compliance with applicable laws, regulations and codes of conduct;
22 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

· ensuring that the Group is not unnecessarily exposed to avoidable financial risks such as the risks associated with fraud, potential liability and loss, including the safeguarding of assets;
· managing potential conflicts of interest of management, board members and shareholders, including misuse of corporate assets and abuse in related party transactions;
· ensuring the effectiveness and efficiency of operations; · monitoring the progress of Group companies in complying with the Financial Sector Charter; · ensuring that the Group and any projects in which it is involved are subject to sound environmental practices; and · ensuring that the appropriate balance is struck between entrepreneurial endeavour and sound business practice.
Overall effectiveness of control environment
As with most systems of internal control, the effectiveness of internal control systems in the Group is subject to inherent limitations, including: · the possibility of human error and/or poor decision-making; · the deliberate circumventing of controls by employees or others; · management overriding controls; and · the occurrence of unforeseeable circumstances. Control systems are therefore designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure. Accordingly, it is recognised that a sound system of internal control can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against risks impacting the achievement of business objectives or any misstatement or loss. Management reports regularly to the respective Group boards on the effectiveness of the Group's risk and compliance management and control framework. The effectiveness of this framework is subject to continuous review. During the period under review and up until the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements, nothing has come to the attention of the directors to suggest that any material breakdown in the functioning of the controls, procedures and systems, which could result in material losses, contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the financial statements, has occurred.
Corporate citizenship and sustainable business practices
RMBH is committed to good corporate citizenship practices and organisational integrity in the direction, control and stewardship of the Group's affairs. To the extent that it is possible, the directors of RMBH seek to ensure that this commitment is practised and reported on by all the Company's subsidiaries and associates. This commitment provides stakeholders with the comfort that the Group's affairs are being managed in an ethical and disciplined manner. The Group subscribes to a philosophy of providing meaningful, timely and accurate communication to its primary stakeholders, based on transparency, accountability and integrity. Shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, regulators and the communities in which Group companies operate are regarded as the Group's key stakeholders.
SHAREHOLDERS
Communication RMBH's communication practices are designed to allow investors to make decisions about the acquisition and ownership of shares. The Company communicates formally with shareholders twice a year when it announces interim and year-end financial results. These comprehensive reports are sent to all shareholders and are accessible on the Company's internet site (www.rmbh.co.za). The Chairman and the Chief Operating Officer meet with investors and investment analysts from time to time.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 23

Corporate governance (continued)
Ownership Significant shareholdings are disclosed on page 34. An analysis of the RMBH share price and trading data appears on page 123.
CUSTOMERS
The Group companies provide a comprehensive range of financial products and services to South African corporates and individuals. In this regard the integrity of its various brands, their image and reputation are paramount. To ensure the sustainability of their businesses, all companies in the Group regularly engage with their customers to measure satisfaction levels and gain insight into their needs. In terms of the Financial Sector Charter, Group companies are committed to providing banking and financial service facilities to previously disadvantaged communities.
EMPLOYEES
Group companies all seek to be the employer of choice in their respective fields. The Group's human resource strategy is to recruit and retain the best people from South Africa's diverse population base. In particular, it seeks people with entrepreneurial attitude and encourages an owner-manager culture. People are empowered, held accountable for their actions and rewarded accordingly. The Group operates in a number of sectors within the broader financial services industry, each with its own distinct employment practices and unique human resource pressures. To recognise and address such divergent needs, the Group follows a practice of devolving the design and implementation of appropriate remuneration structures through industry specific structures. Within this divisional framework, remuneration structures comprise: · basic salary plus benefits; and, where appropriate, · annual performance related rewards; as well as · share incentive schemes. Remuneration is based on individual and business unit performance. Annual remuneration reviews encompass all three elements. Employment equity In line with the business philosophy of empowerment, each business unit in the Group is charged with meeting its targets in terms of plans submitted to the Department of Labour as required by the Employment Equity Act. Group companies are also expected to exceed targets determined by the Financial Sector Charter. In addition to setting affirmative action targets aimed at raising the number of designated groups as a percentage of the total staff complement, such plans commit Group companies to the following in pursuit of the appropriate employment equity in the organisation: · increasing the overall racial diversity of the workforce; · increasing the number of black and women managers; · creating awareness of the need for employment equity and diversity amongst employees; · the establishment of representative diversity forums; and · awareness of employment opportunities for people with disabilities. Employee wellness Of growing importance is the impact of HIV/Aids on the workforce and the South African economy in general. The Group has adopted an HIV/Aids policy that is based on education, communication, counselling and confidentiality. Suppliers The Group has established a set of procurement guidelines to assist Group companies in meeting their commitment to place business with BEE suppliers. At the FirstRand level a procurement council has been established to ensure that all suppliers are appropriately accredited.
24 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Regulators All companies in the Group are subject to the independent oversight of one of South Africa's regulatory authorities. Group company representatives interact with a wide spectrum of regulatory bodies, including the South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board. The relationship sought is one of compliance and constructive participation in committees with a view to ensuring that South African industry practice remains amongst the best in the world. Group companies support initiatives aimed at infrastructure development, the promotion of democracy and business and government dialogue. The Group is represented on the council which oversees the implementation of the Financial Sector Charter. Communities All Group companies are committed to uplifting the societies in which they operate through following sound employment practices and meeting the real needs of the communities. In addition, FirstRand Group companies contribute 1% of their after tax profits to the FirstRand Foundation which has, since its inception in 1999, contributed more than R550 million to various community upliftment programmes. In addition, staff in Group companies are encouraged to give of their time and skills in community related work.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 25

Directorate

1

2

3

4

5

1. Gerrit Thomas Ferreira (60)
BCom, Hons B (B&A), MBA

Non-executive Chairman Appointed: November 1987

GT Ferreira has been involved in the financial services sector since graduating from the University of Stellenbosch. He started his career at the Bank of Johannesburg in 1972 and was a co-founder of Rand Consolidated Investments ("RCI") in 1977. RCI acquired control of Rand Merchant Bank ("RMB") in 1985 and he was managing director of RMB from 1985 to 1988 after which he was elected as executive chairman. When RMBH was founded in 1987 he was appointed chairman, a position which he still holds. Following the formation of FirstRand in 1998 he was appointed non-executive chairman, which position he will resign during November 2008. He is a member of the Council of the University of Stellenbosch.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Management committee Audit and Risk committee (resigned 30 June 2008) Directors' affairs committee

Listed directorships FirstRand Limited ­ Chairman Glenrand M.I.B Limited

2. Peter Cooper (52)
BCom (Hons), CA(SA), HDipTax

Chief Operating Officer Appointed: November 1999

Peter Cooper graduated from the University of Cape Town. After qualifying as a chartered accountant he worked in the financial services sector, first as a tax consultant and later specialising in structured finance with UAL Merchant Bank. He joined RMB's Special Projects division in 1992 and transferred to RMBH in 1997. He represents RMBH on the boards of its unlisted investments.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Management committee Audit and Risk committee (resigned 30 June 2008)
Listed directorships Discovery Holdings Limited Glenrand M.I.B Limited (alternate)

3. Lauritz Lanser Dippenaar (59) Non-executive

MCom, CA(SA)

Appointed: May 1998

Laurie Dippenaar graduated from Pretoria University, qualified as a chartered accountant with Aiken & Carter (now KPMG) and spent three years with the Industrial Development Corporation before becoming a co-founder of RCI in 1977. He became an executive director of RMB in 1985. He was appointed managing director of RMB in 1988 which position he held until 1992 when RMBH acquired a controlling interest in Momentum. He served as executive chairman of that

company from 1992 until the formation of FirstRand in 1998. He was appointed as the first chief executive of FirstRand and held this position until the end of 2005 when he assumed a non-executive role. In November 2008 he will assume the position of chairman of the FirstRand board of directors.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Management committee Audit and Risk committee (resigned 30 June 2008) Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships FirstRand Limited

4. Jan Willem Dreyer (56)
BCom, LLB, HDip Co Law, HDipTax

Independent non-executive Appointed: October 1987

Jan Dreyer is a graduate of Stellenbosch University and the University of the Witwatersrand. He joined Edward Nathan Friedland Mansell & Lewis where he was admitted as an attorney in 1975. Thereafter he joined Hofmeyr Van der Merwe & Botha, where he worked as a commercial lawyer. He was admitted as a partner in 1978 and was chairman of the firm from 1993 until 1999. In 2000 Jan left the legal profession to join the Rembrandt Group as an executive director. Upon the split of that company into Remgro and Venfin, he became a non-executive director of each of the two companies. He joined the board of RMB in 1984 and on the formation of RMBH, joined its board.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Audit and Risk committee (appointed 1 July 2008) Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships Remgro Limited

5. Denis Martin Falck (62)
CA(SA)

Non-executive Appointed: February 2001 Retired: September 2008

Denis Falck left the auditing profession in 1971 to join the Rembrandt Group. He was appointed group financial director in 1990 and held the same portfolio on the board of Remgro Limited until his retirement on 18 June 2008. He retired from the RMBH board on 12 September 2008.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Audit and Risk committee (resigned 30 June 2008) Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships Remgro Limited ­ retired on 18 June 2008 FirstRand Limited ­ retired on 11 September 2008 Trans Hex Group Limited ­ retired on 15 September 2008

26 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

6

7

8

9

10

6. Patrick Maguire Goss (60)
BEcon (Hons), BAccSc (Hons), CA(SA)

Independent non-executive Appointed: November 1987

Pat Goss graduated from the University of Stellenbosch. He qualified as a chartered accountant with Ernst and Young and then joined the Industrial Development Corporation. He has served as a director on various group companies for the past 30 years. A former chairman of the Natal Parks Board, his family interests include Umngazi River Bungalows and other conservation related activities.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships FirstRand Limited AVI Limited

7. Paul Kenneth Harris (58)
MCom

Non-executive Appointed: July 1992

Paul Harris graduated from the University of Stellenbosch and joined the Industrial Development Corporation. He was a co-founder of RCI in 1977 and he became an executive director of RMB in 1985. He spent four years in Australia where he founded Australian Gilt Securities (later to become RMB Australia) and returned to South Africa in 1991 as deputy managing director of RMB. In 1992, he took over as chief executive officer. Subsequent to the formation of FirstRand, he was appointed chief executive officer of FirstRand Bank Holdings in 1999, a position he held until December 2005 when he was appointed chief executive officer of FirstRand.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Management committee Audit and Risk committee (resigned 30 June 2008) Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships FirstRand Limited ­ Chief Executive Officer Remgro Limited

8. Sonja Emilia Ncumisa Sebotsa (36) Independent non-executive

LLB (Hons) LSE, MA (McGill), SFA

Appointed: February 2008

Ms Sebotsa is a principal partner in Identity Partners, a recently formed investment company which seeks to promote the participation of women in the economy through making equity investments, facilitating finance for SME's by the Identity Development Fund, and by generally supporting transformation efforts of companies.

Sonja Sebotsa's areas of study were in Law, Business and Economics. She had been an executive director of WDB Investment Holdings where she led the structuring of WDB's participation in the FirstRand BEE transaction. As a result, she served as WDB's representative on the FirstRand Board. She was previously a vice president

in the investment banking division of Deutsche Bank, where she gained experience in advisory work on Mergers & Acquisitions and Corporate Finance.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Audit and Risk committee (appointed 1 July 2008) Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships Anglo Platinum Limited Discovery Holdings Limited Makalani Holdings Limited Paracon Holdings Limited

9. Khehla Cleopas Shubane (52) Independent non-executive

BA (Hons), MBA

Appointed: November 1993

Khehla Shubane graduated at the University of the Witwatersrand. Prior to this he was a student at the University of the North where his studies were terminated following his arrest for political activities, conviction and sentence which he served on Robben Island. Upon his release he was employed at Liberty Life for a short time. He served on various political organisations until joining the Centre for Policy Studies in 1988. He is an author and has co-authored several political publications, and is a member of the board of the Centre for Policy Studies.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships FirstRand Limited

10. Leon Crouse (55)
CA(SA)

Non-executive Appointed: September 2008

Leon Crouse studied at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University in Port Elizabeth and qualified as a Chartered Accountant (SA) in 1977.

He joined the former Rembrandt Group in 1986 and transferred to Switzerland to hold the position of Financial Controller of Compagnie Financiére Richemont AG. He was part of the team that unbundled the luxury goods business from the Rembrandt Group to form seperately listed Richemont.

In 1993, as a Rembrandt appointee, he returned to South Africa to become a founder member of the Vodacom Group executive team, finally serving as its chief financial officer. Rembrandt, at the time, held a 15% interest in Vodacom. He joined Remgro in April 2008 as designate Director: Group Finance and was appointed to the board on 18 June 2008.

RMBH ­ committee memberships Directors' affairs committee
Listed directorships FirstRand Limited Remgro Limited

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 27

Directorate (continued)

Directors' interests in ordinary shares of RMBH
According to the register of directors' interests maintained by the Company in accordance with section 140 of the Companies Act, directors have disclosed the following interests in the ordinary shares of RMBH at 30 June 2008:

000's

Direct beneficial

Indirect beneficial

Held by associates

Total 2008

Total 2007

P Cooper LL Dippenaar JW Dreyer DM Falck GT Ferreira PM Goss PK Harris SEN Sebotsa KC Shubane

539 1 786
1 ­ 23 353 ­ 1 420 ­ 3

­ 88 556
­ ­ 3 734 11 580 28 675 ­ ­

1 861 233 ­ ­
60 104 ­ ­ ­ ­

2 400 90 575
1 ­ 87 191 11 580 30 095 ­ 3

2 400 90 575
1 ­ 87 191 11 533 30 095 ­ ­

Total interest 2008

27 102

132 545

62 198

221 845

­

Total interest 2007

27 099

132 498

62 198

­

221 795

Since the end of the financial year to the date of this report, the interests of directors remained unchanged.

Directors' emoluments
Schedule of directors' emoluments in respect of the year ended 30 June 2008:

Services as directors R000's

Cash package
R000's

Other benefits
R000's

Performance related R000's

Total 2008 R000's

Total 2007 R000's

Executive P Cooper Non-executive GT Ferreira LL Dippenaar JW Dreyer DM Falck PM Goss PK Harris SEN Sebotsa KC Shubane

­

2 211

327

­

141

­

155

­

182

­

108

­

154

­

61

­

127

­

493

4 750

7 454

7 506

­

­

327

265

­

­

141

75

­

­

155

109

­

­

182

125

­

­

108

64

­

­

154

100

­

­

61

­

­

­

127

75

Total

1 255

2 211

493

4 750

8 709

8 319

Notes: 1. "Other benefits" comprise provident fund and medical aid contributions. 2. "Performance related" payments are in respect of the year ended 30 June 2008, but will be paid, (together with an interest factor) in three tranches during the year ended 30 June 2009. 3. Mr Harris is a full-time executive of FirstRand. The fees receivable by him have been waived and ceded to that Company and do not accrue to him in his private capacity. 4. Messrs Cooper and Harris are also participants under the FirstRand Group Share Incentive Schemes. Details thereof are disclosed on page 29.

28 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Directors' participation in FirstRand Group share incentive schemes
Share option scheme: Ordinary shares

P Cooper

FirstRand FirstRand FirstRand FirstRand FirstRand FirstRand

PK Harris

FirstRand FirstRand FirstRand FirstRand FirstRand

* Share Appreciation Rights

Strike price cents
655 608 1050 1533 1633 2053
655 608 1050 1533 1633

Strike date From
17/9/2005 16/9/2006 1/10/2007 3/10/2008 1/10/2009 1/10/2010
17/9/2005 16/9/2006 1/10/2007 3/10/2008 1/10/2009

To
17/9/2007 16/9/2008 1/10/2009 3/10/2010 1/10/2011 1/10/2012
17/9/2007 16/9/2008 1/10/2009 3/10/2010 1/10/2011

Opening balance 30 June
2007 000's
740 395 296 400 400*
­
658 329 395 540 800*

Granted/ (taken up)
this year 000's
(740) ­ ­ ­ ­
400*
(658) (164)
­ ­ ­

Closing balance 30 June
2008 000's
­ 395 296 400 400 400
­ 165 395 540 800

Benefit derived R000's
11 469 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
10 350 2 402 ­ ­ ­

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 29

Directorate (continued)

Board meetings
The board met five times during the year and attendance was as follows:

September 2007 November 2007

GT Ferreira ­ Chair P Cooper LL Dippenaar JW Dreyer DM Falck PM Goss PK Harris KC Shubane SEN Sebotsa ­ appointed 15 Feb 2008

















A









A





A = Apologies tendered * Extra-ordinary strategic meeting

February 2008
        

March 2008*
     A   

May 2008
        

Management committee meetings
The management committee continued to meet during the year on a regular basis. The members of the management committee are Mr GT Ferreira (Chair) and Messrs P Cooper, LL Dippenaar and PK Harris.

Audit committee meetings
The audit committee met twice during the year and attendance was as follows:
DM Falck ­ Chair P Cooper By rotation, at least one of ­ GT Ferreira LL Dippenaar PK Harris
A = Apologies tendered

September 2007
A 
  

February 2008
 
A A 

Directors' affairs committee meetings
Since all non-executive directors are members of this committee, matters relating to the charter of this committee are dealt with as an integral part of the normal proceedings of the quarterly board meetings. When these issues are discussed, it is usual for the Chief Operating Officer to excuse himself from the meeting.

30 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Annual financial statements
Contents
32 Directors' responsibility statement 32 Declaration by the Company secretary 33 Independent auditor's report 34 Directors' report 36 Balance sheet 37 Income statement 38 Statement of changes in equity 40 Cash flow statement 42 Accounting policies 55 Management of insurance risk 60 Management of financial risk 66 Notes to the annual
financial statements 101 RMB Holdings Limited
­ Company financial statements

Directors' responsibility statement
The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the annual financial statements of the RMB Holdings Limited Group for the year ended 30 June 2008. The external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc., have audited the annual financial statements and their unqualified report appears on page 33. The information provided in these annual financial statements has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and conforms to International Financial Reporting Standards and prevailing practices of the insurance and banking industries. In discharging their responsibilities, both for the integrity and fairness of these statements, the directors rely on systems of internal control and risk management procedures applied by the management of the main operating subsidiaries and associates ("the Group companies"). Based on the information and explanations given by management of the Company and of the underlying Group companies, the directors are of the opinion that: · the internal controls are adequate; · the financial records may be relied upon in the preparation of the annual financial statements; · appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, have been applied; and · the annual financial statements fairly present the financial position of the Group. The annual financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and nothing has come to the attention of the directors to indicate that the Company will not remain a going concern. The Company and Group annual financial statements, including the directors' report, were approved by the board of directors on 17 September 2008 and are signed on its behalf by:

GT Ferreira Chairman

P Cooper Chief Operating Officer

Declaration by the Company secretary in respect of section 268G(d) of the Companies Act
I declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the Company has lodged with the Registrar of Companies all such returns as are required of a public company in terms of the Companies Act and that all such returns are true, correct and up to date.
AL Maher Company Secretary
32 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Independent auditor's report
To the members of RMB Holdings Limited
We have audited the annual financial statements and Group annual financial statements of RMB Holdings Limited, which comprise the directors' report, the balance sheet and the consolidated balance sheet as at 30 June 2008, the income statement and the consolidated income statement, the statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the cash flow statement and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes, as set out on pages 34 to 118. Directors' responsibility for the financial statements The Company's directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Auditor's responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company and of the Group as of 30 June 2008, and their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and in the manner required by the Companies Act of South Africa.
PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. Director: F Tonelli Registered Auditor Sandton 17 September 2008
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 33

Directors' report
for the year ended 30 June 2008

Nature of business
RMB Holdings Limited ("RMBH") is a diversified financial services holding company listed on the JSE Limited ("JSE") under the banking sector.
Its investments include:

Actual interest* At 30 June
2008

2007

FirstRand Limited ­ "FirstRand" Discovery Holdings Limited ­ "Discovery" RMBSI Investments (Pty) Limited ­ "RMBSI" FirstRand STI Holdings Limited ­ "OUTsurance" Glenrand M.I.B Limited ­ "Glenrand M.I.B"

30,1% 25,0% 76,9% 58,6% 12,3%

30,1% ­
77,0% 58,6% 12,3%

* Actual interest differs from the effective interest used for financial reporting due the consolidation of treasury shares and "deemed" treasury shares held by Group companies (see note 41, page 100).

FirstRand's unbundling of its 57,1% interest in Discovery was completed during November 2007. In this process, RMBH: · received a direct stake in Discovery of approximately 16%; · acquired the 4,5% interest in Discovery that Remgro Limited ("Remgro") received via its direct stake in FirstRand. The purchase consideration due
to Remgro was settled through a fresh issue of RMBH shares; and · purchased a further 4,5% interest in Discovery for a total consideration of some R700 million. This acquisition was cash settled. As a result, RMBH now directly holds 25% of Discovery. Further details regarding the investments are provided on pages 94 to 97 of these annual financial statements. In terms of a written agreement between Remgro and RMBH, the most significant shareholders of FirstRand, RMBH has management control over FirstRand.

Share capital
Ordinary shares There was no change in the authorised ordinary share capital. During the year 21 302 886 ordinary shares with a par value of one cent per share were issued at a premium of R33,93 per share.
At the annual general meeting of the shareholders of the Company, held on 30 November 2007, a special resolution was passed authorising the board of the Company or the board of a subsidiary of the company to approve the purchase of shares in RMBH during the period up to and including the date of the following annual general meeting. The repurchase is limited in any one financial year to a cumulative maximum of 10% of the Company's issued share capital. This resolution is subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, as amended, and the Listings Requirements of the JSE.
To date, no action in terms of this resolution has taken place.
Preference shares There was no change in the authorised preference share capital. The Company issued 11 800 redeemable cumulative preference shares, with a par value of one cent per share, at a premium of R99 999,99 per share on 3 January 2008.

Shareholder analysis
(Disclosure in terms of Section 140A (8(a)) of the Companies Act)

Based on information disclosed by STRATE and investigations conducted on behalf of the Company, the following shareholders have an interest of

5% or more in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.

2008

2007

Financial Securities Limited (Remgro) Public Investment Corporation LL Dippenaar GT Ferreira

25,0% 8,6% 7,5% 7,2%

23,7% 8,6% 7,6% 7,3%

Earnings
Headline earnings for the year ended 30 June 2008 amounted to R3,71 billion (2007: R3,90 billion).

34 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Dividends
The following ordinary dividends were declared and paid by RMBH during the year under review:
· An interim dividend for the period ended 31 December 2007 of 69,0 cents (2006: 61,5 cents) per ordinary share, declared on 5 March 2008 and paid on 31 March 2008.
· A final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2008 of 72,5 cents (2007: 80,0 cents) per ordinary share, declared on 17 September 2008, payable on 27 October 2008.
The last day to trade in RMBH shares on a cum-dividend basis in respect of the final dividend will be Friday, 17 October 2008, while the first day to trade ex-dividend will be Monday, 20 October 2008. The record date will be Friday, 24 October 2008 and the payment date Monday, 27 October 2008.
No dematerialisation or rematerialisation of shares may be done during the period Monday, 20 October 2008 to Friday, 24 October 2008, both days inclusive.

Directorate
The directorate consists of:

GT Ferreira (Chairman) LL Dippenaar DM Falck PK Harris KC Shubane

P Cooper (Chief Operating Officer) JW Dreyer PM Goss SEN Sebotsa

Ms SEN Sebotsa was appointed to the board on 15 February 2008. Subsequent to year end Mr DM Falck retired from the board effective 12 September 2008. Mr L Crouse was appointed to the board effective 13 September 2008.

Directors' interests in RMBH
Details of individual directors' interests in the Company are disclosed on page 28.

Interest of directors and officers
During the financial year, no contracts were entered into in which directors or officers of the company had an interest and which significantly affected the business of the group. The directors had no interest in any third party or company responsible for managing any of the business activities of the group except to the extent that they are shareholders in RMBH as disclosed in this report. Arm's length banking and assurance transactions entered into by the Company's key management with the Group's associates are disclosed on page 91 to 93.

Directors' emoluments
Directors' emoluments are disclosed on page 28.

Directors' participation in group share incentive schemes
RMBH does not operate a share incentive scheme in its own right.
Mr Harris is a full-time executive director of FirstRand. During the year Mr Cooper was a member of the FirstRand executive committee. They are participants in the FirstRand Group Share Incentive Schemes, details of which are provided in the FirstRand annual financial statements.
Their interests at 30 June 2008 in the FirstRand schemes are set out on page 29.
FirstRand recovers the annual cost attributable to Mr Cooper's participation in its share incentive schemes from RMBH. During the year ended 30 June 2008 the costs incurred by RMBH in this regard amounted to R1 321 937 (2007: R246 622).

Property and equipment
There was no change in the nature of the property and equipment of the Group or in the policy regarding its use during the year.

Insurance
RMBH has protection against crime risks as well as professional indemnity by carrying large deductibles through a structured insurance risk financing program, with the balance of the risks being fully insured up to R2 billion.

Company secretary and registered offices
Mr AL Maher was appointed company secretary upon the retirement of Mr AH Arnott from that position, effective 14 March 2008. The address of the company secretary is that of the Company's registered office. The Company's registered office is at 4th Floor, 4 Merchant Place, corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road, Sandton, 2196.

Events subsequent to balance sheet date
There are no material facts or circumstances that have occurred between the accounting date and the date of this report.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 35

Balance sheet
as at 30 June 2008
Assets
Property and equipment Intangible assets Investment in associates
Financial assets Equity securities: ­ available-for-sale ­ at fair value through profit or loss Debt securities: ­ available-for-sale ­ held to maturity ­ at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables including insurance receivables
Deferred acquisition cost Reinsurance contracts Deferred taxation Cash and cash equivalents
Total assets
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company's equity holders Share capital and premium Reserves
Total shareholders' equity Minority interest
Total equity
Liabilities
Insurance contracts Financial liabilities
Convertible debentures Preference shares Interest bearing loans Policyholders' profit share Policyholders' contingency provision Investment contracts: ­ at fair value through profit or loss
Deferred acquisition reserve Provisions Trade and other payables Deferred taxation Taxation Short-term portion of financial liabilities
Total liabilities
Total equity and liabilities
36 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Notes
1 2 3
4 4
4 4 4 5
6 7 8

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
113,4 20,5
19 578,9
411,8 4 118,3
390,0 72,5
960,1 263,7
28,6 81,5 195,6 2 057,6 28 292,5

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
103,8 7,4
15 192,9
443,7 3 667,1
350,0 67,2
863,0 521,9
7,0 55,7 145,8 1 978,2 23 403,7

9 10
6 11 12 13 14 15 16
18 19
7 13,17

5 196,5 15 109,9 20 306,4
1 044,0 21 350,4
3 937,5
15,0 1 323,5
527,5 (92,7)
9,1
781,0 13,9 21,3
308,7 65,2 26,8 5,3
6 942,1 28 292,5

4 439,0 12 184,1 16 623,1
971,7 17 594,8
3 734,1
15,0 126,3 736,7 (101,3)
15,5
793,1 9,0
22,7 262,4
72,7 110,5
12,2 5 808,9 23 403,7

Income statement
for the year ended 30 June 2008
Share of after-tax profits of associate companies Impairment loss Equity accounted earnings
Gross insurance premium revenue Less: reinsurance premiums Net insurance premiums Change in provision for unearned premiums net of reinsurance
Net insurance premium revenue Commission income Fee income Investment income Net fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Net income Gross claims paid Reinsurance recoveries received Investment contract benefits Transfer from policyholders' profit share Provision for cash bonuses Acquisition expenses Marketing and administration expenses Result of operating activities
Result of operating activities of the Group Finance cost Profit before taxation Taxation Profit for the year
Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company Minority interest
Earnings per share (cents) ­ basic Earnings per share (cents) ­ diluted Dividend per share (cents)

Notes 3
20 21 22 23 24 24 25 14 6.5 26 27
28 29
31 31 32

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
3 786,6 (1,4)
3 785,2
5 304,6 (166,1)
5 138,5 35,8
5 174,3 23,3 73,6
397,1 228,9
5 897,2 (2 978,0)
40,7 13,0 317,2 (248,6) (1 354,3) (680,5)
1 006,7
4 791,9 (151,7)
4 640,2 (290,1)
4 350,1
4 121,5 228,6
4 350,1
345,9 339,9 141,5

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
3 589,6 (12,8)
3 576,8
5 135,8 (113,6)
5 022,2 304,2
5 326,4 5,1
67,1 218,8 988,7
6 606,1 (2 968,7)
8,4 (166,8)
52,3 (179,5) (1 481,5) (558,8)
1 311,5
4 888,3 (177,9)
4 710,4 (332,7)
4 377,7
4 108,9 268,8
4 377,7
349,7 340,6 141,5

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 37

Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2008
GROUP
Rmillion
Balance at 1 July 2006 Net profit for the year Dividends paid Income of associate companies retained Movement in treasury shares Capital invested by minorities Transfer to contingency reserve Share option expense reserve ­ IFRS2 Transfers relating to short-term insurance interests: ­ Movement in revaluation reserve ­ Change in reserves due to change in holding Change in carrying value of associate due to elimination of treasury shares Transfers relating to associates: ­ Movement on foreign currency translation reserves ­ Movement in revaluation reserves ­ Consolidation of share trust ­ Share based payment reserve ­ Effective change in shareholding of subsidiary ­ Other
Balance at 30 June 2007

Share capital

Equity Other non-

accounted distributable

reserves

reserves

4 465,7 ­ ­ ­
(26,7) ­ ­ ­

6 877,8 ­ ­
2 343,9 113,0 ­ ­ ­

489,3 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
35,7 5,5

­

­

(15,0)

­

­

(1,8)

­

25,9

­

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
4 439,0

3,6 44,9 (352,5) 77,7
4,9 (7,2)
9 132,0

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
513,7

Retained earnings
2 283,8 4 108,9 (1 478,8) (2 343,9)
2,9 ­
(35,7) ­
1,2 ­
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
2 538,4

Minority interest
399,1 268,8 (103,4)
­ ­ 407,0 ­ 2,2

Total equity
14 515,7 4 377,7 (1 582,2) ­ 89,2 407,0 ­ 7,7

(8,4)

(22,2)

6,4

4,6

­

25,9

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
971,7

3,6 44,9 (352,5) 77,7
4,9 (7,2)
17 594,8

38 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

GROUP
Rmillion
Balance at 1 July 2007 Issue of shares Net profit for the year Dividends paid Income of associate companies retained Movement in treasury shares Capital invested by minorities Transfer to contingency reserve Share option expense reserve ­ IFRS2 Transfers relating to short-term insurance interests: ­ Movement in revaluation reserve ­ Movement in foreign currency reserve ­ Change in reserves due to change in holding Change in carrying value of associate due to elimination of treasury shares Transfers relating to associates: ­ Movement on foreign currency translation reserves ­ Movement in revaluation reserves ­ Consolidation of share trust ­ Reserve movements transferred to income statement ­ Share based payment reserve ­ Effective change in shareholding of subsidiary ­ Other
Balance at 30 June 2008

Share capital
4 439,0 722,9 ­ ­ ­ 34,6 ­ ­ ­

Equity Other non-

accounted distributable

reserves

reserves

9 132,0 ­ ­ ­
2 275,8 82,0 ­ ­ ­

513,7 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
36,8 4,0

Retained earnings
2 538,4 ­
4 121,5 (1 784,5) (2 275,8)
0,7 ­
(36,8) ­

­

­

(17,6)

­

­

­

23,9

­

­

­

(7,1)

­

­

(48,3)

­

­

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
5 196,5

268,3 208,6
61,3 (16,0) 45,8 (34,7) 17,9
11 992,7

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
553,7

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
2 563,5

Minority interest
971,7 ­
228,6 (172,4)
­ ­ 13,5 ­ 1,8

Total equity
17 594,8 722,9
4 350,1 (1 956,9)
­ 117,3
13,5 ­
5,8

(10,8) 14,6 (3,0)

(28,4) 38,5 (10,1)

­

(48,3)

­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
1 044,0

268,3 208,6
61,3 (16,0) 45,8 (34,7) 17,9
21 350,4

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 39

Cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 June 2008
Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations Investment income Dividends received Income tax paid Net cash generated from operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property and equipment Proceeds from disposal of property and equipment Net additions to investments Acquisition of intangible asset Investment in associate companies Net cash used in investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities Funding raised from minority shareholders Issue of preference shares Redemption of preference shares Net amount of borrowings (repaid)/raised Cost of funding Dividends paid on preference shares in issue Dividends paid by subsidiary to minority shareholders Dividends paid to shareholders Net cash used in financing activities
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents for the year Unrealised foreign currency translation adjustment included in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

Note A

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
2 366,2 239,1 235,5 (441,4)
2 399,4
(37,8) 0,2
(405,6) (8,0)
(702,7) (1 153,9)
13,5 1 182,4
­ (207,9)
(84,0) (94,7) (234,6) (1 782,4) (1 207,7)
37,8
41,6 1 978,2 2 057,6

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
2 086,0 259,2 48,7 (285,7)
2 108,2
(22,7) 1,8
(876,5) (5,5) ­
(902,9)
31,6 1,3 (1,4)
330,4 (48,8) (155,7) (142,1) (1 477,6) (1 462,3)
(257,0)
(0,4) 2 235,6 1 978,2

40 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Note to the cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 June 2008
A. Cash flows from operating activities
Reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash generated from operations: Profit before taxation
Adjusted for: Impairment loss Loss on dilution of shareholding Equity accounted earnings Depreciation Amortisation of restraint of trade Intellectual property bonuses Loss on sale of fixed assets Share option expenses Investment income Funding costs Dividends accrued on preference shares in issue Profit participation payable to cell holders Net fair value gains on assets at fair value through profit or loss Changes in insurance balances:
Gross provision for unearned premiums Reinsurers' share of provision for unearned premiums Gross provision for claims reported but not paid Gross provision for claims incurred but not reported Provision for OUTbonus OUTbonus paid Insurance contracts Investment contracts Investment contracts premiums received Deferred acquisition costs Deferred acquisition revenue Transfer from policyholders' profit share Cell shares written off Changes in working capital Current receivables and prepayments Current payables and provisions
Cash generated from operations

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

4 640,2
1,4 9,5 (2 275,8) 27,3 4,1 5,9 0,3 5,8 (411,4) 87,4 78,6 130,4 (233,1)
7,0 (28,7) 16,2 29,4 248,6 (135,3) 23,8 (14,0)
2,0 (9,8) 4,9 (317,2) 319,4
272,6 (123,3)
2 366,2

4 710,4
12,8 4,7
(2 343,9) 21,4 5,5 ­ 0,5 7,7
(303,3) 63,0
156,4 118,2 (928,8)
30,6 (30,6) 70,3 11,1 179,5 (105,7) 343,7 162,9
­ (6,7) 9,0 (52,3)
­
0,3 (50,7)
2 086,0

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 41

Accounting policies

1. Basis of preparation
RMBH's Company and Group financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), the requirements of the South African Companies Act 61 of 1973, as amended, and the Listings Requirements of the JSE.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis using the historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and liabilities where it adopts the fair value basis of accounting. Such financial assets and liabilities include: financial assets and liabilities held for trading; financial assets classified as available-for-sale; and financial instruments elected to be carried at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use of estimates, assumptions and judgements that affect the reported amounts in the balance sheet and income statement. Although estimates are based on management's best knowledge and judgements of current facts as at balance sheet date, the actual outcome may differ from those estimates. Where appropriate, details of estimates are presented in the accompanying notes to the financial statements.
All monetary information and figures presented in these financial statements are stated in millions of Rand, unless otherwise indicated.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below. These polices have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Amendments to published standards effective in the current year The following amendments to published financial reporting standards are mandatory for the Group's current accounting period:
· IFRS 7 ­ Financial Instruments: Disclosures and complementary amendments to IAS 1- Presentation of Financial Statements: Capital Disclosures and amendments to IFRS 4 ­ Insurance contracts Under these developments, the Group must convey management's own objectives and perspectives about the risks arising from their financial instruments and insurance contracts. This does not have a significant impact on the classification and valuation of the Group's financial instruments or insurance liabilities, but rather defines disclosure required to explain the risk management procedures applied by the Group. The enhanced disclosure should reflect the way senior management itself perceives, measures and manages the Group's risks. Companies must also explain their objectives, policies and processes for managing capital and meeting capital regulations.
· IFRIC 11 ­ IFRS 2 ­ Share based payments This interpretation clarifies the application of IFRS 2 to certain share based payment arrangements involving entity instruments of the entity's parent. This interpretation does not have a significant impact on the Group's results.
· IFRIC 10 ­ Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment This interpretation addresses the interaction between the requirements of IAS 34 and the recognition of impairment losses on goodwill in IAS 36 and certain financial assets in IAS 39, and the effect of that interaction on subsequent interim and annual financial statements. This interpretation does not have a significant impact on the Group's results.
Standards, amendments and interpretations published that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group The following new standard and interpretations of existing standards are not yet effective for the current financial year. The Group will comply with the new standard and interpretations from the effective date:
Effective date

IAS 1 (revised)

Presentation of Financial Statements The main change in the revised IAS 1 is the requirement to present all non-owner transactions in the statement of comprehensive income. The amendment also requires two sets of comparative numbers to be provided for the financial position in any year where there has been a restatement or reclassification of balances.
The amendments will not affect the financial position or results of the Group but will introduce some changes to the presentation of the financial position, changes in equity and financial results of the Group.

Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.

42 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

IFRS 1 and IAS 27 (revised) IFRS2 (amended) IFRS 3 and IAS 27 (revised)
IFRS8
IAS 23 (amended)

Cost of an Investment in a Subsidiary, Jointly Controlled Entity or Associate The amendments to IFRS 1 allow first-time adopters of IFRS 1 to use a deemed cost option for determining the cost of an investment in a subsidiary, jointly controlled entity or associate.
This amendment will not impact the Group as the Group adopted IFRS in full in the financial year ending 30 June 2006. Consequently, IFRS 1 is no longer applicable.
Vesting Conditions and Cancellations The amendments to IFRS 2 clarify that vesting conditions are performance conditions and service conditions only. The amendment also clarifies that cancellations of share options by parties other than the entity are to be accounted for in the same way as cancellations by the entity.
This amendment is not expected to impact the Group's results significantly.
Revision to IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements The revised IFRS 3 retains the current basic requirements. The most significant amendments are that the acquisition related costs will now be recognised as an expense in the income statement when incurred, rather than including it in goodwill.
The revised IFRS 3 also states that contingent consideration must be recognised and measured at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in fair value are recognised in accordance with other IFRSs, usually in the income statement rather than by adjusting goodwill.
The amendment to IAS 27 requires that changes in a parent's ownership interest in a subsidiary that does not result in a loss of control to be accounted for within equity.
The amendments are expected to affect the Group's accounting for business combinations that arise after the effective date. The amendment to IAS 27 requires that transactions with minorities be accounted for in equity, which is the current accounting policy of the Group.
Operating Segments IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting. IFRS 8 requires an entity to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable operating segments. Operating segments are components of an entity about which separate financial information is available and that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance.
The standard addresses disclosure in the annual financial statements and will not affect recognition and measurement. The impact on the revised disclosure is not expected to be significant.
Borrowing Costs The amendment removes the option of immediately recognising as an expense borrowing costs that relate to assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale. The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of such assets is therefore now required.
The Group's accounting policy is to capitalise borrowing costs on a qualifying asset. The amendment will therefore not have an effect on the Group's results.

Effective date Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 43

Accounting policies (continued)

IAS 32 (amended) IAS 39 (amended)
IFRIC 13
IFRIC 14
IFRIC 16 Annual Improvements

Financial Instruments Puttable at Fair value The amendment to IAS 32 requires the classification of certain puttable financial instruments and financial instruments that impose on the issuer an obligation to deliver a pro-rata share of the entity only on liquidation, as equity. The amendment sets out specific criteria that are to be met to present the instruments as equity together with related disclosure requirements.
This amendment is not expected to have a significant impact on the Group.
Eligible Hedged Items The amendment clarifies that inflation may only be hedged in instances where changes in inflation are contractually specified portions of cash flows of a recognised financial instrument. It also clarifies that an entity is permitted to designate purchased or net purchased options as a hedging instrument in a hedge of a financial or non-financial item and to improve effectiveness, an entity is allowed to exclude the time value of money from the hedging instrument.
This amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
Customer Loyalty Programmes The interpretation requires entities to allocate some of the proceeds of the initial sale of the award credits (such as "points" or travel miles) and recognise these proceeds as revenue only when the entity has fulfilled its obligations. An entity may fulfill its obligation by supplying awards themselves or engaging a third party to do so.
This interpretation will not change the Group's current accounting treatment for customer loyalty programmes.
IAS 19 ­ The limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction This interpretation addresses the interaction between the minimum funding requirement and the limit on the measurement of the defined asset or liability. To determine the limit, the interpretation requires an entity to measure any economic benefits available to them through either refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
The impact of this interpretation on the Group is not considered to be significant.
Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation The interpretation clarifies which risks can be hedged under a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation and by which entities within the Group the hedging instruments can be held in order to qualify as a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
The Group does not currently apply hedge accounting to net investments in foreign operations.
Annual Improvements Project As part of the first of its annual improvements projects, the IASB has issued its edition of annual improvements. The annual improvements projects aim to clarify and improve the accounting standards. The improvements include those involving terminology or editorial changes with minimal effect on recognition and measurement.
There are no significant changes in the current year's improvement that will affect the Group.

Effective date Annual periods commencing on or after 1 July 2009.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 July 2008.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 March 2009.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 October 2008.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.

44 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Standards, amendments and interpretations published that are not yet effective and not relevant to the Group The following interpretations of existing standards are not yet effective for the current financial year and are not relevant to the Group:

IFRIC 12 IFRIC 15

Service Concession Arrangements The interpretation addresses the accounting by private sector operators involved in the provision of public sector infrastructure assets and services.
This interpretation is not applicable to the Group.
Real Estates Sales The interpretation clarifies when real estate sales should be accounted for in terms of IAS 11 Construction Contracts or IAS 18 Revenue.
This interpretation is not applicable to the Group.

Effective date
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 March 2008.
Annual periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.

2. Consolidation
The Group financial statements include the assets, liabilities and results of the operations of the holding company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries that have been consolidated are companies in which the Group, directly or indirectly, has a long-term interest of more than one half of the voting rights or has power to exercise control over the operations.
The Group uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition. The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Group's share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is accounted for directly in the income statement.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from or to the date on which effective control was acquired or ceased to exist.
Intergroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of impairment of the asset transferred.
Consolidation of share incentive trusts and collective investment schemes (including policyholders): The Group consolidates share incentive trusts and collective investment schemes in which it is considered to have control through its size of investment, voting control or related management contracts.
Associate companies: Associates are entities in which the Group holds an equity interest of less than 50% and over which it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but does not control.
The Group includes the results of associates in its Group financial statements using the equity accounting method, from the effective date of acquisition to the effective date of disposal. The investment is initially recognised at cost. The Group's investment in associates includes goodwill (net of any accumulated impairment losses) identified on acquisition. When the Group's share of losses in an associated company equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associated company.
The Group's share of retained income is transferred to non-distributable reserves. The Group's share of other movements in the reserves of associated companies is accounted for as changes in consolidated non-distributable reserves.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups' interest in the entity. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Dilutionary and anti-dilutionary effects of equity transactions by associated companies that RMBH is not party to, are accounted for directly against reserves.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 45

Accounting policies (continued)
Accounting policies of subsidiaries and associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. Separate financial statements: In RMBH's separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies are carried at cost.
3. Revenue and expenditure recognition
Interest income and expense: The Group recognises interest income and expense in the income statement for all instruments measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Instruments with characteristics of debt, such as redeemable preference shares, are included in financial assets and financial liabilities. Dividends received or paid on these instruments are included and accrued in interest income and expense. Fee and commission income: The Group generally recognises fee and commission income on an accrual basis when the service is rendered. Certain fees and transaction costs that form an integral part of the yield of available-for-sale and amortised cost financial instruments are capitalised and recognised as part of the effective yield of the financial instrument over the expected life of the financial instruments. Commission income on acceptances, bills and promissory notes endorsed is credited to income over the lives of the relevant instruments on a time apportionment basis. Dividends: The Group recognises dividends when the Group's right to receive payment is established. This is on the last day to trade for listed shares, and on the date of declaration for unlisted shares.
4. Foreign currency translation
Functional and presentation currency: The financial statements are presented in South African Rand, which is the functional and presentation currency of RMBH. Transactions and balances: Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated to South African Rand using the rates of exchange ruling at the financial year-end. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement. Group companies: The results and financial position of all the Group entities are translated into the South African Rand as follows: · assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet; · income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable approximation
of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the transactions); and · all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity. On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders' equity. When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded in equity are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
5. Borrowing costs
The Group capitalises borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset up to the date on which construction or installation of the assets is substantially completed. Other borrowing costs are expensed when incurred.
6. Direct taxes
Direct taxes include South African and foreign jurisdiction corporate tax payable, as well as capital gains tax and secondary tax on companies. The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-taxable or disallowed. It is calculated using taxation rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, in each particular jurisdiction within which the Group operates.
46 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

7. Recognition of assets
Assets The Group recognises assets when it obtains control of a resource as a result of past events, and from which future economic benefits are expected to flow to the enterprise. Contingent assets The Group discloses a contingent asset where, as a result of past events, it is highly likely that economic benefits will flow to it, but this will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events which are not wholly within the Group's control.
8. Recognition of liabilities, provisions and contingent liabilities
Liabilities and provisions: The Group recognises liabilities, including provisions, when: · it has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; · it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and · a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. Contingent liabilities: The Group discloses a contingent liability where: · it has a possible obligation arising from past events, the existence of which will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or
more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the enterprise; or · it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle an obligation; or · the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
9. Financial instruments
Financial instruments disclosed in the financial statements include cash and cash equivalents, investments, derivative instruments, debtors and shortterm loans, trade and other payables and borrowings. Financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value, including transaction costs, when the Group becomes party to the contractual terms of the instruments. The transaction costs relating to the acquisition of financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss are expensed. Subsequent to initial recognition, these instruments are measured as follows: Loans and receivables and borrowings ­ Loans and receivables and borrowings are non-derivative financial instruments with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. These instruments are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Held-to-maturity financial instruments ­ Instruments with fixed maturity that the Group has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity financial instruments and are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Available-for-sale financial instruments ­ Other long-term financial instruments are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value. Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial instruments are recognised in non-distributable reserves in the period in which they arise. When these financial instruments are either derecognised or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are realised and included in income. Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss ­ These instruments, consisting of financial instruments held-for-trading and those designated at fair value through profit or loss at inception, are carried at fair value. Derivatives are also classified as held-for-trading unless they are designated as hedges. Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial instruments are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise. Financial assets and liabilities are designated on initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss to the extent that it produces more relevant information because it either: · results in the reduction of measurement inconsistency (or accounting mismatch) that would arise as a result of measuring assets and liabilities and
the gains and losses on them on a different basis; or
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 47

Accounting policies (continued)

· is a group of financial assets and/or financial liabilities that is managed and its performance evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and this is the basis on which information about the assets and/or liabilities is provided internally to the entity's key management personnel.
The Group derecognises an asset when the contractual rights to the asset expires, where there is a transfer of contractual rights that comprise the asset, or the Group retains the contractual rights of the assets but assumes a corresponding liability to transfer these contractual rights to another party and consequently transfers substantially all the risks and benefits associated with the asset.
Where the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the asset. If a transfer does not result in derecognition because the Group has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, the Group continues to recognise the transferred asset in its entirety and recognises a financial liability for the consideration received. In subsequent periods, the Group recognises any income on the transferred asset and any expense incurred on the financial liability.
Where the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the Group shall determine whether it has retained control of the financial asset. Where the Group has not retained control it shall derecognise the financial asset and recognise separately, as assets or liabilities, any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer. Where the Group has retained control of the financial asset, it shall continue to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the financial asset.
Financial liabilities (or portions thereof) are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or has expired. On derecognition, the difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability, including related unamortised costs, and the amount paid for it is included in the income statement.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in an organised financial market is measured at the bid price for financial assets and ask/offer price for financial liabilities. The fair value of the financial instruments that are not traded in an organised financial market is determined using a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risk existing at the balance sheet date, including independent appraisals and discounted cash flow methods. Fair values represent an approximation of possible value, which may differ from the value that will finally be realised.
Where a current legally enforceable right of set-off exists for recognised financial assets and financial liabilities, and there is an intention to settle the liability and realise the asset simultaneously, or to settle on a net basis, all related financial effects are offset.
All purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at the trade date.

10. Property and equipment
The Group carries property and equipment at historical cost less depreciation and impairment, except for land which is carried at cost less impairment. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.

Property and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to reduce the book value of these assets to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives. Freehold properties and properties held under finance leases are further broken down into significant components that are depreciated to their respective residual values over the economic lives of these components.

The periods of depreciation used are as follows:

· Freehold property and property held under finance lease

­ Buildings and structures

50 years

­ Mechanical, electrical and components

20 years

· Computer equipment

3 years

· Furniture, fittings and office equipment

6 years

· Motor vehicles

4 years

The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. Gains or losses on disposals are determined by reference to the carrying amount of the asset and the net proceeds received, and are recorded in the income statement on disposal.

48 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Leased assets ­ Assets leased in terms of finance leases, i.e. where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum finance lease payments. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease period or the period over which the particular asset category is otherwise depreciated. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in non-current liabilities. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding. The finance charges are accounted for in the income statement over the term of the lease using the effective interest rate method. Hire purchase agreements are accounted for as finance leases.
Leases of assets where the lessor substantially retains all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are accounted for in income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
11. Intangible assets
Goodwill: Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the attributable fair value of the Group's share of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary/associate at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is disclosed separately. Goodwill on acquisitions of associates is included in investments in associates.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Other intangible assets are stated at historic cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment losses. Intangible assets are recognised if it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group from the assets and the costs of these assets can be measured reliably. Intangible assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives. The amortisation charge is reflected in marketing and administration expenses in the income statement.
The carrying amounts of intangible assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or sooner if there is an indication of impairment. Where the carrying amount of an intangible asset is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down immediately to its recoverable amount, with the impairment recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Computer software development costs are generally expensed in the year incurred.
Amortisation and impairments of intangible assets are reflected under operating expenditure in the income statement.
12. Impairment of assets
Impairment ­ subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates An asset is impaired if its carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount, which is the higher of its fair value less cost to sell or its value in use. The carrying amounts of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated companies are reviewed annually and written down for impairment where necessary.
Investment property and property, plant and equipment Where these assets are identified as being impaired, that is when the recoverable amount has declined below its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to reflect the decline in value. Such written-off amounts are accounted for in the income statement.
Financial assets carried at amortised cost The Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset is impaired at each balance sheet date. A financial asset is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that have occurred after the initial recognition of the asset (a "loss event") and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables or held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial asset's original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement. If a held-to-maturity investment or a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under contract. As a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment on the basis of an instrument's fair value using an observable market price.
If in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, such as an improved credit rating, the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed and is recognised in the income statement.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 49

Accounting policies (continued)
Available-for-sale financial assets At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence of possible impairment of financial assets carried at fair value. If any objective evidence of impairment exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and current fair value, less any impairment loss on the financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss, is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses on equity instruments that were recognised in the income statement are not subsequently reversed through the income statement ­ such reversals are accounted for in equity.
Goodwill Goodwill is assessed annually for possible impairments. For purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, being the lowest component of the business measured in the management accounts that is expected to generate cash flows that are largely independent of another business component. Impairment losses relating to goodwill are not reversed.
13. Deferred taxation
The Group calculates deferred taxation on the comprehensive basis using the liability method on a balance sheet based approach. It calculates deferred tax liabilities or assets by applying corporate tax rates to the temporary differences existing at each balance sheet date between the tax values of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, where such temporary differences are expected to result in taxable or deductible amounts in determining taxable income for future periods when the carrying amount of the assets or liabilities are recovered or settled. The Group recognises deferred tax assets if the directors consider it probable that future taxable income will be available against which the unused tax losses can be utilised.
Secondary taxation on companies is provided for in respect of dividend payments, net of dividends received or receivable and is recognised as a taxation charge for the year.
14. Employee benefits
Post-employment benefits: The Group operates defined benefit (through its associates) and defined contribution schemes, the assets of which are held in separate trustee-administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and the relevant Group companies, taking account of the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries. For defined benefit plans the pension accounting costs are assessed using the projected unit credit method.
The Group writes off current service costs immediately, while it expenses past service costs, experience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions and plan amendments over the expected remaining working lives of employees. The costs are written off immediately in the case of retired employees.
These funds are registered in terms of the Pension Funds Act, 1956, and membership is compulsory for all Group employees. Qualified actuaries perform annual valuations.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately-administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Post-retirement medical benefits: In terms of certain employment contracts, the Group provides for post-retirement healthcare benefits to qualifying employees and retired personnel by subsidising a portion of their medical aid contributions. The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit pension plans. The entitlement to these benefits is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and completing a minimum service period. Qualified actuaries perform annual valuations.
Leave pay: The Group recognises, in full, employees' rights to annual leave entitlement in respect of past service.
Bonuses: Management and staff bonuses are recognised as an expense in staff costs as incurred when it is probable that the economic benefits will be paid and the amount can be reliably measured.
Intellectual property bonuses: In terms of the intellectual property bonus plan operated by a subsidiary, employees were paid intellectual property bonuses at the Company's discretion. The beneficiaries under the plan were subject to retention periods and amounts are to be repaid should the employee be in breach of the retention period. The intellectual property bonuses are recognised as current service costs over a 2,5 to 3 year period and are originally valued using the projected unit credit method.
50 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

15. Borrowings
The Group initially recognises borrowings, including debentures, at the fair value of the consideration received. Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost. Discounts or premiums on debentures issued are amortised on a basis that reflects the effective yield on the debentures over their life span. Interest paid is recognised in the income statement on an effective interest rate basis.
Instruments with characteristics of debt, such as redeemable preference shares, are included in liabilities. Dividends paid on such instruments are included in interest expense.
16. Share capital
Share issue costs directly related to the issue of new shares or options are shown as a deduction from equity.
Dividends paid on ordinary shares are recognised against equity in the period in which they are declared. Dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised but disclosed as a post balance sheet event.
Treasury shares: Where the Company or other members of the Group purchases the Company's equity share capital, the consideration paid is deducted from total shareholders' equity as treasury shares until they are cancelled. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received is included in shareholders' equity. These shares are treated as a deduction from the issued number of shares and taken into account in the calculation of the weighted average number of shares.
17. Segment reporting
The Group defines a segment as a distinguishable component or business that provides unique products or services in a distinct business segment and/or products or services within particular geographical segments. Segments with a majority of revenue earned from charges to external customers and whose revenue, results or assets are 10% or more of all the segments, are reported separately.
18. Share based payments
The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation plans.
The Group expenses the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options, over the vesting period of the options, as employee costs, with a corresponding credit to a share-based payment reserve. The total value of the services received is calculated with reference to the fair value of the options at grant date.
The fair value of the options are determined excluding non-market vesting conditions. These vesting conditions are included in the assumptions of the number of options expected to vest. At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of options expected to vest.
19. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents are measured at fair value and include cash on hand, short term deposits held with banks and listed government bonds under resale agreements.
Short term deposits with banks and listed government bonds under resale agreements are considered instruments that can be liquidated within a period of three months from the reporting date. Short term deposits which cannot be accessed within this period are classified as financial assets.
20. Insurance contracts
Classification of insurance and investment contracts The Group issues investment contracts and contracts that transfer insurance risk:
· Contracts are classified as insurance contracts if the Group accepts significant insurance risk. Insurance risk is defined as a risk of the occurrence of a defined uncertain insured event. The amount paid in the event of a claim may significantly exceed the amount provided for.
· Investment contracts are contracts that transfer financial risk without significant insurance risk. Financial risk refers to the risk of a possible future change in the value of an asset or financial instrument, due to a change in the interest rate, commodity prices, and index of prices, foreign exchange rate or other measurable variable.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract the class will remain unchanged for the lifetime of the contract even if the policy conditions change significantly over time. Insurance contracts are classified into two main categories, depending on the duration of the risk.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 51

Accounting policies (continued)
20.1 Short-term insurance Short-term insurance is the providing of benefits under short-term policies which includes property, accident and health, liability, miscellaneous and motor or a contract comprising a combination of any of these policies.
Recognition and measurement · Premium revenue
Gross insurance premium revenue reflects business written during the year, and excludes any taxes or levies payable on premium. Premium revenue includes all premiums for the period of risk covered by the policy, regardless of whether or not these are due for payment in the accounting period. Premiums are shown before deduction of commission.
· Unearned premium provision The provision for unearned premiums comprises the proportion of gross premium revenue which is estimated to be earned in the following or subsequent financial years, computed separately for each insurance contract using the method most reflective of any variation in the incidence of risk during the period covered by the contract.
· Unexpired risk provision Provision is made for unexpired risks arising from insurance contracts where the expected value of claims and expenses attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium provision in relation to such policies after the deduction of any deferred acquisition costs.
· Provision for claims reported but not paid Claims outstanding comprise provisions for the Group's estimate of the ultimate cost of settling all claims incurred but unpaid at the balance sheet date and, if applicable, related internal and external handling expenses and an appropriate prudential margin. Claims outstanding are assessed by reviewing individual claims and making allowance for claims reported but not yet paid, the effect of both internal and external foreseeable events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes and past experience and trends. Adjustments to claims provisions established in prior years are reflected in the financial statements of the period in which the adjustments are made and disclosed separately if material. The methods used, and the estimates made are reviewed annually.
· Provision for claims incurred but not reported Incurred but not reported reserves represent a provision for claims incurred up to the end of the financial year but not yet reported. The provision for claims incurred but not reported is estimated based on actual reported claims and referring to the net premium written.
· Salvage and subrogation recoveries Certain insurance contracts permit the Group to sell (usually damaged) property acquired in settling a claim (i.e. salvage) as well as to pursue third parties for payment of some or all costs (subrogation). Salvage and subrogation recoveries are recognised when it is reasonably certain that the amounts will be recovered. The recoveries are credited to claims incurred in the income statement.
· Deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") Acquisition costs, which represent commission paid in respect of insurance contracts, are recognised as an intangible asset and amortised over the duration of the insurance agreement as premium is earned.
· Deferred acquisition revenue ("DAR") Reinsurance commission is recognised as a liability and amortised over the duration of the reinsurance agreement as reinsurance premium is expensed.
· Reinsurance contracts held The Group cedes reinsurance in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its net loss potential through the diversification of its risks. Only rights under contracts that give rise to a significant transfer of insurance risk are accounted for as reinsurance assets. Rights under contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are accounted for as financial instruments.
Amounts recoverable from or due to reinsurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the reinsured insurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance contract.
The benefits to which the Group is entitled under its reinsurance contracts held are recognised as assets. These assets consist of short-term balances due from reinsurers (classified within loans and receivables) on settled claims, as well as receivables (classified as reinsurance assets) that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related reinsured insurance contracts.
Reinsurance premiums paid under reinsurance contracts are recognised as reinsurance assets and expensed as the gross premiums are released to income. Reinsurance liabilities are primarily premiums payable for reinsurance contracts.
52 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

The Group assesses its reinsurance assets for impairment on a six monthly basis. If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount and recognises that impairment loss in the income statement. The Group gathers the objective evidence that a reinsurance asset is impaired using the same process adopted for financial assets held at amortised cost. The impairment loss is also calculated following the same method used for these financial assets.
· Contingency reserve A reserve is made in respect of the Group's short-term insurance operations in South Africa as required by the regulatory authorities. Transfers to and from this reserve are treated as appropriation of retained income. The contingency reserve is not distributable. The contingency reserve is calculated as 10% of the net written premiums in terms of the South African Short Term Insurance Act, 1998.
· Receivables and payables related to insurance contracts Receivables and payables are recognised when due. These include amounts due to and from brokers and insurance contract holders.
If there is objective evidence that the insurance receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount of the insurance receivable accordingly and recognises that impairment loss in the income statement. The Group gathers the objective evidence that an insurance receivable is impaired using the same process adopted for loans and receivables. The impairment loss is also calculated under the same method used for these financial assets.
· Cash bonus provision A provision is made for probable future cash bonus payments during the period in which the premium is collected using statistical techniques, past experience and management's expectations regarding future trends in claims experiences. Certain personal lines clients are eligible for this benefit, which returns a contracted percentage of the client's premium paid, upon achievement of a pre-specified claim free period as stipulated in the client's insurance contract.
20.2 Long-term insurance Long-term insurance provides benefits under long-term policies for credit life. Premium revenue includes all premiums for the period of risk covered by the policy, regardless of whether or not these are for payment in the accounting period. Premiums are shown before the deduction of commission. Benefits are recorded as an expense when they are incurred.
The liabilities under life insurance contracts are valued in accordance with the Actuarial Society of South Africa's guidelines and in particular PGN103 (version 4) and PGN104 (version 6). The operating surpluses or losses arising from life insurance contracts are determined by the annual valuation. These surpluses or losses are arrived at after taking into account the movement in actuarial liabilities under matured policies, provisions for profit commissions accrued and adjustments to other reserves within the policyholder liabilities.
Assets and liabilities were valued on consistent bases. Valuation assumptions regarding future mortality, morbidity, expenses and yields are based on prudent best estimates taking into account the Company's expected future experience and allowing for any specific conditions of the various policy classes.
20.3 Liability adequacy test At each balance sheet date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the contract liabilities net of related DAC assets. In performing these tests, current best estimates of future contractual cash flows and claims handling and administration expenses are used. Any deficiency is immediately charged to profit or loss initially by writing off DAC and by subsequently establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests (the unexpired risk provision). Any DAC written off as a result of this test cannot subsequently be reinstated.
In respect of short-term insurance transactions, provision is made for unexpired risks arising from insurance contracts where the expected value of claims and expenses attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the balance sheet date exceeds the unearned premiums provision in relation to such policies after the deduction of any deferred acquisition costs.
20.4 Investment contracts Policyholder contracts that do not transfer significant insurance risk are classified as investment contracts. The proceeds from payments against these contracts are excluded from the income statement and recognised directly against the liability. The results from investment contracts included in the income statement is limited to administration fees earned as well as fair value gains or losses from the revaluation of assets underlying the investment contracts.
Liabilities for individual market related long-term insurance policies, where benefits are in part dependent on the performance of underlying investment portfolios, are taken as the aggregate value of the policies' investment in the investment portfolio at the valuation date. The liability is based on assumptions of the best estimate of future experience.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 53

Accounting policies (continued)
21. Convertible debentures
Convertible debentures originated by the Group are initially recognised at the proceeds, less attributable transaction costs and subsequently carried at this value. The convertible debentures can be converted, at the option of the debenture holder, to non-redeemable preference shares. The carrying amount equals the amount at which the debentures could be converted to non-redeemable preference shares. The dividend rights to the nonredeemable preference shares have been contractually determined and are non-discretionary. The convertible debentures are classified as long-term liabilities. Interest incurred on the convertible debentures is recognised in the income statement using the effective yield method.
22. Preference shares
The Group issues variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares to fund the statutory capital requirements of its insurance subsidiaries, and whilst the redemption is at the option of the issuer, the Group has no intention to defer redemption of the various allotments of shares beyond the duration of the underlying transactions in respect of which the shares were issued. Accordingly, these preference shares are classified as long-term liabilities. The preference shares originated by the Group are initially recognised at the proceeds received, less attributable transaction costs and are subsequently carried at that value, which equals the redemption value. The dividends on these shares are non-discretionary, are recognised in the income statement as a charge against the profit before tax and are disclosed separately. The provision for dividends payable is disclosed separately in the balance sheet under current liabilities.
23. Policyholders' profit share
The Group and certain of its clients share in the operating result of the insurance business. The entitlement to the participation in the operating result remains contingent until the termination of the agreement with the client or until contractually determined. During the duration of the profit sharing agreement the estimated entitlement to profit or losses by clients is determined annually and transferred to the policyholder profit share liability. Increases and decreases in the estimated entitlement to operating result that may become apparent in future periods are transferred from or to the operating result of that period.
24. Accounting for cell captive arrangements
Certain cell captive arrangements have been entered into by businesses within the Group. Per these arrangements, certain risk products marketed and distributed by these companies are underwritten by the Company's subsidiaries. The collection of premiums and the payment of claims is a function that is performed by the cell or its administrator. The results of the cell are fully consolidated into the results of the group. Economic benefits generated by the cell are distributed by way of a bi-annual preference dividend to the preference shareholder, an entity independent of the cell. Losses incurred by the cell are for the Group and there is no recourse against the cell for such losses. The Group, however, retains the right to offset such losses against future profits generated by the cell in the determination of any preference dividends to be paid to the preference shareholder. The profitability of cell captive business is reviewed on a monthly basis to ensure that the Group is not exposed to uneconomical risks over which it has no day-to-day management control. Provisions in relation to insurance contracts, other than the provision for incurred but not reported claims and the provision for unearned premium, concluded by the cell are determined by the cell administrator. The provision for incurred but not reported claims is carried by the Group at the statutory rate of 7% of net written premiums.
54 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Management of insurance risk
for the year ended 30 June 2008
The Group's insurance businesses are conducted in two separate subsidiaries, namely FirstRand STI Holdings Limited ("OUTsurance") and RMB-SI Investments (Pty) Limited ("RMB Structured Insurance" or "RMBSI").
RMB Structured Insurance holds both short-term and life insurance licences. It creates individual insurance and financial risk solutions for large corporates by using sophisticated risk techniques and innovative financial structures. RMBSI's business strategy is to mitigate insurance risk by passing a significant portion of the risk back to external parties or to write business where the overall portfolio insurance risk is controlled within acceptable limits with minimal residual risk accruing to shareholders. The Group generally writes few policies for a number of large corporate clients. In the case of customer protection and credit insurance, policies are written over the entire customer base of the corporate client. This business is written in all retail outlets of the corporate client which has branches throughout South Africa and its adjoining territories. The geographic diversity of this business reduces concentration risk to acceptable levels.
OUTsurance is a direct personal lines and small business short-term insurer. OUTsurance has developed an enterprise risk management framework to provide reasonable assurance that the Group's risks are being prudently and soundly managed. The framework is designed according to acceptable principles on corporate governance and risk management standards. The risk management framework outlines the key risks facing the business and how these risks are monitored.
As the insurance offerings of these businesses differ, the management of insurance risk is presented for each business below.
RMB Structured Insurance
RMBSI's insurance business comprises a small number of large insurance contracts issued to corporates and institutions, as well as a large number of smaller insurance contracts issued on behalf of the Group by its corporate clients under underwriting mandates. The Group's compliance committee meets on a regular basis, performing a detailed review of all new corporate insurance contracts and underwriting mandates, and annually reviews the status of these contracts and mandates. The Group's risk appetite is determined with reference to past experience, its capital base, predictability and volatility of the underwriting result, economic climate, and the availability of reinsurance cover, where applicable.
The Group mainly underwrites insurance risk in South Africa, with a small portion arising from risks in the Far East, Australia, United Kingdom, United States of America, Lesotho and Swaziland.
Due to the number and size of insurance contracts, the profile of the Group's business changes regularly, and as a result thereof gross premiums and gross claims show little comparability between different reporting periods.
The Group manages its insurance risk in respect of each insurance contract separately through limits of indemnity, reinsurance arrangements or through other arrangements with the Group's clients where they provide the risk capital required for the business, whether on an actual or contingent basis. The Group does not pool insurance risks, with the exception of the credit protection business. The Group is able to re-price most of its insurance products in respect of future risks.
Customers are legally bound to report claims soon after a loss has been incurred. Most of the insurance contracts are not subject to significant lags or claim complexity risk and result in relatively low estimation uncertainty. Underwriting exposures are also limited by contractual limits of indemnity. The underwriting strategy provides for a variety of risks.
Reinsurance decisions are made on a case-by-case basis when the compliance committee approves or reviews a transaction. The Group reinsures a portion of the risks it underwrites in order to limit its exposure to losses and to protect its own customers' capital resources. Reinsurance contracts comprise both proportional and non-proportional reinsurance. Amounts recoverable under reinsurance contracts are reported after impairment provisions. The ability of reinsurers to meet reinsurance claims is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Short-term insurance Discounted liabilities Where the liability term is deemed to be long enough for the effect of investment returns earned on provisions held to be material, explicit account is taken thereof by discounting future net cash-flows at the expected long-term investment return.
In short-term insurance this may be necessary where the delay between the date of a claim and the date of payment of the claim exceeds a predetermined period or where the policy term extends beyond a predetermined length.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 55

Management of insurance risk (continued)
This approach may or may not be taken on a policy by policy basis, depending on the nature of the business and the provision being calculated. The basis of the projections is a "best estimate" assumption basis.
Undiscounted liabilities The undiscounted liabilities of the Group include the following:
· Unearned premium provision ("UPP") The UPP is calculated on the assumption that the risk profile under a policy is uniformly distributed over the term of the policy. The method applies the proportion of the policy term still outstanding to the total written premium to obtain the value of premiums still to be earned. For debt-related business, the premium in any period is related to the value of the outstanding debt. RMBSI therefore calculates the outstanding debt value as a proportion of the original debt and apply this to the total written premium to obtain the UPP. For inward reinsurance business the UPP is subject to a minimum of 50% of the net written premiums.
· Unexpired risk provision ("URR") and additional unexpired risk provision ("AURR") The URR is equal to the expected cost of future claims and related expenses expected to arise from policies that have unexpired cover as at the valuation date. The methods used to estimate the URR may differ from one case to another. For most of the insurance transactions, the historical loss ratios were considered in forming a view on the URR. If the URR exceeds the UPP this could indicate that the premiums charged are inadequate for the risks covered. To allow for this, an AURR is set aside to cater for the additional expected loss. The AURR is the positive difference between the URR and UPP after the deduction of any deferred acquisition costs. None of the insurance transactions of the Group require an AURR as at 30 June 2008.
· Incurred but not reported ("IBNR") provision The most common techniques used to determine IBNR provisions are the Chain-Ladder and the Bornheutter-Ferguson methods. Both the methods were considered. The Chain-Ladder method is used to analyse historic claims experience to determine estimated future development factors for the projection of future losses. The Bornheutter-Ferguson method combines the chain-ladder technique with a market- or company-related estimate of the ultimate loss ratio and is intended to stabilise the projections where data is scarce. This method is often useful where developed claims experience is not available in respect of the business being analysed. The majority of the Group's IBNR is calculated as a percentage of premiums written. This percentage is a best estimate provision, which represents the expected value of the unreported claims liabilities. Different percentages are applicable for different classes of business and their appropriateness is assessed against the Group's past claims experience. The actuaries review the adequacy of the claims provisions. The chain ladder method is used for the majority of the Group's business to calculate a best estimate of the outstanding claims liability which is then compared to the outstanding claims liability raised by the operation. The actuaries report did not highlight any areas of inadequate provisioning. The provision for reported claims and IBNR is initially estimated at a gross level. A separate calculation is then carried out to determine the estimated reinsurance recoveries.
· Contingency reserve A contingency reserve is held to meet unforeseen future losses that may arise over the remaining term of in-force policies and will give rise to unexpected increase in the claims. Since the extent and nature of such contingencies is unknown, this reserve is generally set at a predetermined percentage of the gross premium income of the preceding year.
Long-term insurance The liabilities for insurance contracts include discounted and undiscounted liabilities. Discounted liabilities are calculated by projecting liability outgo and expected future premiums and discounting the cashflows to the valuation date based on the valuation interest rate. The undiscounted liability is an additional IBNR provision due to it being credit life business.
56 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

The split of the long term gross and net actuarial liability for insurance contracts between discounted and undiscounted liabilities is as follows:

June 2008 R'000

June 2007 R'000

Gross actuarial liability Discounted liabilities Undiscounted liabilities

256 409 14 185

56 885 7 951

270 594

64 836

Net actuarial liability Discounted liabilities Undiscounted liabilities

173 101 1 512
174 613

9 228 802
10 030

OUTsurance
OUTsurance conducts short-term insurance business on different classes of short-term insurance risk. Furthermore, it underwrites risk products marketed and distributed through companies within the wider FirstRand Group.

Types of insurance contracts written
Personal accident Liability Miscellaneous Motor Property Transportation

Personal lines
X X X X X X

Commercial
X X X X X X

Cell captive
X X

The personal lines segment of the business sells insurance to the general public, allowing them to cover their personal possessions and property. The commercial segment of the business targets medium and small businesses in South Africa. Insurance products are sold with either a monthly or an annual premium payable by the covered party or entity. Cell captive business refers to arrangements whereby the Group underwrites various risk products marketed and distributed by other FirstRand Group companies. The management of cell captive risks underwritten by the Group is performed by the cell itself. The following gives a brief explanation of each risk:
Personal accident Provide compensation arising out of the death or disability directly caused by an accident occurring anywhere in the world, provided that death or disability occurs within 12 months of this injury.
Liability Provide cover for risks relating to the incurring of a liability other than relating to a risk covered more specifically under another insurance contract.
Miscellaneous Provide cover relating to all other risks that are not covered more specifically under another insurance contract.
Motor Provide indemnity cover relating to the possession, use or ownership of a motor vehicle. The cover includes comprehensive cover, third party, fire and theft and liability to other parties.
Property Provide indemnity relating to movable and immovable property caused by perils such as fire, explosion, earthquakes, acts of nature, burst geysers and pipes, malicious damage, impact, alterations and additions.
Transportation Provide cover over risks relating to stock in transit.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 57

Management of insurance risk (continued)
Management of insurance risk The primary activity of OUTsurance relates to the assumption of possible loss arising from risks to which the Group is exposed through the sale of short term insurance products. Insurance risks to which the Group is exposed relate to property, personal accident, liability, motor, transportation and other miscellaneous perils that may result from a contract of insurance. The Group is exposed to uncertainty regarding the timing, magnitude and frequency of such potential losses.
The theory of probability forms the core base of the risk management model. Through the continuous sale of insurance products and subsequent growth in the pool of insured risks, the Group can diversify its portfolio of risks and therefore minimise the impact of variability of insurance losses affecting that portfolio. Insurance perils are unpredictable in nature, timing and extent which expose the Group to a risk that the effect of future insured losses could exceed the expected value of such losses.
OUTsurance manages its insurance risk through its reinsurance programme which is structured to protect the Group against material losses to either a single insured risk, or a group of insured risks in the case of a catastrophe where there would tend to be a concentration of insured risks.
The underwriting of insurance risk and the passing on of excessive insurance risk to reinsurers is further described below.
Underwriting strategy OUTsurance aims to diversify the pool of insured perils through writing a balanced portfolio of insurance risks over a large geographical area. Products are priced using statistical regression techniques which identify risk factors through correlations identified in past loss experiences. Risk factors would typically include factors such as the age of the insured person, past loss experiences, past insurance history, type and value of asset covered, security measures taken to protect the asset, major use of the covered item, and so forth. Risks are priced and accepted on an individual basis and as such there is a minimal cross subsidy between risks. Insurance premiums charged for a certain pool of risks are adjusted frequently according to the normalised loss ratios experienced on that pool of risks.
Insurance risk is monitored within the Group on a daily basis to ensure that risks accepted by the Group for its own account are within the limits set by the Board. Exception reporting is used to identify areas of concentration of risk so that management are able to consider the levels adopted in the reinsurance programme covering that pool of risk.
Risks are rated individually by programmes loaded onto the computer system based on information captured by staff for each risk. Conditions and exclusions are also automatically set at an individual risk level. Individual risks are only automatically accepted up to predetermined thresholds which vary by risk type. Risks with larger exposure than the thresholds are automatically referred and underwritten individually by the actuarial department. These limits are set at a substantially lower level than the reinsurance retention limits. No risks which exceed the upper limits of the reinsurance can be accepted without the necessary facultative cover being arranged. No-claims bonuses, which reward clients for not claiming, also form part of the Group's underwriting strategy.
Multi-claimants are also monitored and managed by increasing conditions of cover or ultimately cancelling cover.
Reinsurance strategy OUTsurance reinsures a portion of the risk it assumes through its reinsurance programme in order to control the exposure of the Group to losses arising from insurance contracts and in order to protect the profitability of the Group and its capital. A suite of treaties are purchased in order to limit losses suffered from individual and collective insurance risks. Facultative reinsurance is purchased for certain individual risks that have been identified as being outside the limits set for these risks. The retention limits are modelled to optimise the balance between acceptable volatility and reinsurance cost. Acceptable volatility is as defined by the limits set by the board. The Group only enters into reinsurance agreements with reinsurers which have adequate credit ratings.
Concentrations of risk and mitigating policies Risk concentrations are monitored by means of exception reporting. When large risks are underwritten individually, the impacts which they could have on risk concentrations are considered before they are accepted. Marketing efforts are also coordinated to attract business from a wide geographical spread. Risks which could lead to an accumulation of claims as the result of a single event are declined. Focus is placed on attracting large numbers of relatively small independent risks which would lead to very stable and predictable claims experience.
OUTsurance is exposed to a concentration of insurance risk in the Gauteng province of South Africa where 48% of the Group's total sum insured is domiciled. In order to manage this concentration of insurance risk, the Group has entered into a catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance treaty that would limit the loss of the Group to pre-determined levels following the occurrence of a localised catastrophe in this area.
58 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Exposure to catastrophes and policies mitigating this risk Catastrophe modelling is performed to determine the impact of different types of catastrophe events (including natural disasters) in different geographical areas, at different levels of severity and at different times of the day. Catastrophe limits are set so as to render satisfactory results to these simulations. The catastrophe cover is also placed with reinsurers with a reputable credit rating and cognisance is taken of the geographical spread of the other risks underwritten by the reinsurers in order to reduce correlation of our exposure with the balance of their exposure. These reinsurance models are run at least annually to take account of changes in the portfolio and to take the latest potential loss information into account. Cell captive Cell captive arrangements have been entered into with businesses within the FirstRand Group. Per these arrangements, certain risk products marketed and distributed by these companies are underwritten by the Company's subsidiary, OUTsurance Insurance Company Limited. Profits arising out of the cell captives are distributed by OUTsurance Insurance Company to the FirstRand Group. The collection of premiums and the payment of claims is a function that is performed by the cell or its administrator. The results of the cell are fully consolidated into the results of OUTsurance Insurance Company Limited, and hence are included in these Group results. OUTsurance Insurance Company Limited is responsible for maintaining the required solvency for the cell captives. The profitability of cell captive business is reviewed on a monthly basis to ensure that the Group is not exposed to uneconomical risks over which it has no day-to-day management control. Contingency reserve A contingency reserve is held to meet unforeseen future losses that may arise over the remaining term of in-force policies and will give rise to unexpected increase in the claims. Since the extent and nature of such contingencies is unknown, this reserve is generally set at a predetermined percentage of the gross premium income of the preceding year.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 59

Management of financial risk

The Group is exposed to various financial risks in connection with its current operating activities, such as market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital adequacy risk. These risks contribute to the key financial risk that the proceeds from the Group's financial assets might not be sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance and investment policy contracts.
To manage these risks the subsidiary boards established sub-committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities in meeting its corporate governance and fiduciary duties. The sub-committees include audit committees, compliance committees, investment committees, actuarial committees and remuneration committees. Each committee adopted a charter which sets out the objectives, authority, composition and responsibilities of the committee. The boards approved the charters of these committees.
Additional information on the management of financial risks is provided below.

Market risk
The risk that the fair value or future cash flow of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.

Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument denominated in a currency other than the reporting currency may fluctuate due to changes in the foreign currency exchange rate between the reporting currency and the currency in which such instrument is denominated.

The Group's exposure to currency risk is mainly in respect of foreign investments made. The Group has invested in foreign subsidiaries operating in Ireland, Mauritius and Australia and in a financial services emerging market portfolio.

The operations as described expose the Group to foreign currency risk. The board monitors these exposures on a quarterly basis. Any significant changes in the foreign currency balances are followed up throughout the year and are reported to the board.

The table below lists the Group's exposure to foreign currency risk:

As at 30 June 2008 ­ Rmillion

Australian

Rand

Dollar

Namibian Dollar

United States Dollar

Euro

Total

Equity securities ­ at fair value through profit or loss

­

­

­

1 342,1

Other assets

26 879,3

21,8

21,3

27,9

­

1 342,1

0,1 26 950,4

Total assets

26 879,3

21,8

21,3

1 370,0

0,1 28 292,5

Total liabilities

6 927,6

0,6

5,9

8,0

­

6 942,1

Exchange rates: Closing rate at 30 June Average rate for the year

7,520 6,600

1,000 1,000

7,827 7,288

12,335 10,752

As at 30 June 2007 ­ Rmillion
Equity securities ­ at fair value through profit or loss Other assets
Total assets
Total liabilities
Exchange rates: Closing rate at 30 June Average rate for the year

Rand ­
22 028,4 22 028,4
5 798,8

Australian Dollar
­ ­
­
­

Namibian Dollar
­ ­
­
­

United States Dollar
1 355,6 19,4
1 375,0
10,1

7,038 7,186

Euro

Total

­

1 355,6

0,3 22 048,1

0,3 23 403,7

­

5 808,9

9,533 9,389

60 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises when the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuates because of changes in market interest rates.

The Group makes use of asset managers and internal resources to invest in securities exposed to interest rate risk. The securities managed by asset managers are contractually agreed with specific risk levels. The internally managed money market investments are managed in line with the mandate approved by the investment committees. The investment committees monitor the performance of all the investments and reports to the board on a quarterly basis.

The Group's financial assets, other than policyholders' assets, are exposed to interest rate risk and any change in interest rates would have an impact on the profit before tax of the Group. Policyholders' funds are exposed to interest rate risk and the capital loss on fixed rate instruments would be for the policyholders' account as the liability is calculated with reference to the value of the assets.

The table below reflects the shareholders' exposure to interest rate risk. An increase or decrease in the market interest rate would result in the following changes in the profit before tax of the Group:

200bps Increase
2008 Rmillion

200bps Decrease
2008 Rmillion

200bps Increase
2007 Rmillion

200bps Decrease
2007 Rmillion

Financial assets Unlisted preference shares Collective investment scheme
Cash and cash equivalents

7,8

(7,8)

7,0

(7,0)

0,7

(0,7)

­

­

41,2

(41,2)

39,6

(39,6)

Financial liabilities Preference shares Interest bearing loans
Short-term portion of financial liabilities

(8,3)

8,3

­

­

(10,5)

10,5

(14,7)

14,7

(0,1)

0,1

(0,1)

0,1

The table below lists the policyholders' funds exposure to interest rate risk. An increase or decrease in interest rates of 200bps would result in the following changes in the fair value of interest rate instruments.

Reported Fair value
2008 Rmillion

200bps Increase
2008 Rmillion

200bps Decrease
2008 Rmillion

Reported Fair value
2007 Rmillion

200bps Increase
2007 Rmillion

200bps Decrease
2007 Rmillion

Financial assets Unlisted preference shares Listed preference shares Fixed rate Variable rate

72,5
642,6 317,5

74,0
655,5 323,9

71,1
629,8 311,2

67,2
390,9 472,1

68,5
398,7 481,6

65,8
383,1 462,7

Other price risk Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, whether those changes are caused by factors specific to the individual financial instrument or its issuer, or factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.
Equity securities are mandated to stockbrokers and asset managers. Asset managers' mandates include benchmarks against which performance is measured based on fee structures. The investment committees monitor the performance for each asset manager against benchmarks and reports to the board on a quarterly basis.
All equities are split between listed and unlisted securities. Listed equities which relate to linked policies do not require a sensitivity analysis as the liability is not guaranteed and will be determined solely with reference to the value of the assets. These assets do not expose the Group to any risks.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 61

Management of financial risk (continued)

The table below reflects the shareholders' exposure to equity price risk. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the equity prices would result in the following changes in the profit before tax of the Group:

10% Increase
2008 Rmillion

10% Decrease
2008 Rmillion

10% Increase
2007 Rmillion

10% Decrease
2007 Rmillion

Financial assets Listed preference shares Collective investment scheme Listed equity shares

25,3 90,3 134,2

(25,3) (90,3) (134,2)

28,2 60,2 135,6

(28,2) (60,2) (135,6)

Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. The key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are:
· Unlisted preference shares with put options to the large banks;
· Debt securities;
· Loans and receivables; and
· Cash and cash equivalents.
Significant concentrations of credit risk, if applicable, are disclosed in the financial statements. The credit exposure to any one counterparty is managed by the subsidiary's board of directors in accordance with the requirements of the Short-term Insurance Act of 1998 and Long-term Insurance Act of 1998 and by setting transaction/exposure limits, which are reviewed at each board and audit committee meeting. The credit worthiness of existing and potential clients is monitored quarterly at the board meeting and bi-annually by the actuarial committees and investment committees. The table below provides information on the credit risk exposure by credit rating at year end (if available):

As at 30 June 2008 ­ Rmillion
Equity securities ­ preference shares ­ available-for-sale ­ unlisted ­ available-for-sale ­ listed Collective investment scheme Debt securities ­ available-for-sale ­ unlisted ­ held to maturity ­ at fair value through profit or loss
­ fixed rate ­ variable rate Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents

AAA

AA

­ ­ ­
­ ­
602,9 274,0
­ 260,6
1 137,5

­ 253,2 902,9
390,0 ­
28,8 13,5 54,3 816,7
2 459,4

A
98,3 ­ ­
­ ­
7,6 3,2 3,3 346,5 458,9

F1
­ ­ 33,9
­ ­
­ ­ ­ 120,4 154,3

BBB+ Not rated

Total

30,0 ­ ­
­ ­
­ 25,0
0,7 513,4
569,1

30,3 ­ ­
­ 72,5
3,4 1,7 205,4
­
313,3

158,6 253,2 936,8
390,0 72,5
642,7 317,4 263,7 2 057,6
5 092,5

62 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

As at 30 June 2007 ­ Rmillion
Equity securities ­ preference shares ­ available-for-sale ­ unlisted ­ available-for-sale ­ listed Collective investment scheme Debt securities ­ available-for-sale ­ unlisted ­ held to maturity ­ at fair value through profit or loss
­ fixed rate ­ variable rate Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents

AAA

AA

­ ­ ­
­ ­
179,2 452,0
­ 44,8
676,0

­ 281,6 601,6
350,0 ­
27,7 (0,5) 37,1 1 132,2
2 429,7

A
98,3 ­ ­
­ ­
17,2 (3,8) 3,4 256,8 371,9

F1

BBB+ Not rated

Total

­

30,0

33,8

162,1

­

­

­

281,6

­

­

­

601,6

­

­

­

350,0

­

­

67,2

67,2

­

2,4

164,3

390,8

­

24,5

­

472,2

­

0,6

480,8

521,9

­

544,4

­

1 978,2

­

601,9

746,1

4 825,6

The ratings were obtained from Fitch. The ratings are based on long-term investment horizons. Where long-term ratings are not available, the financial instruments are categorised according to short-term ratings. The ratings are defined as follows:

Long-term Investment grade: AAA The financial instrument is judged to be of the highest credit quality, with minimal credit risk and indicates the best quality issuers that are
reliable and stable.

AA The financial instrument is judged to be of high quality and is subject to a very low credit risk and indicates quality issuers.

A

The financial instrument is considered upper-medium grade and is subject to low credit risk although certain economic situations can

more readily affect the issuers' financial soundness adversely than those rated AAA or AA.

BBB+ The financial instrument is subject to moderate credit risk and indicates medium class insuers, which are currently satisfactory.

Short-term ratings F1 Highest credit quality. Indicates the strongest capacity for timely payment of financial commitments

Not rated The credit exposure for the assets listed above is considered acceptable by the board even though certain assets do not have a formal rating.

Fair value
The carrying amounts of the following categories of financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair value: · Amounts receivable from policyholders; · Other amounts receivable; · Cash and cash equivalents; · Unlisted preference share investments; · Accounts payable and accruals; and · Provisions for liabilities and charges.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 63

Management of financial risk (continued)

Liquidity risk and asset liability matching

The Group is exposed to daily calls on its available cash resources from claims arising. Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty

in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Group's liabilities are matched by appropriate assets and it has significant liquid

resources to cover its obligations. The Group's liquidity and ability to meet such calls are monitored quarterly at the board meetings and bi-annually

by the investment committees.

No-

0­6

7 ­ 12

1­5

liquidity

As at 30 June 2008 ­ Rmillion

Total

months

months

years

5 years

risk

Liabilities Insurance contracts Financial liabilities
Convertible debentures Preference shares Interest bearing loans Policyholders' profit share Contingency reserves Investment contracts: ­ at fair value through profit or loss Deferred acquisition reserve Provisions Trade and other payable Deferred taxation liabilities Taxation Short-term portion of financial liabilities

3 937,5
15,0 1 800,7
527,5 (92,7)
9,1
781,0 13,9 21,3
308,7 65,2 26,8 5,3

344,7
­ 39,7 379,7
­ ­
­ ­ 21,3 308,7 ­ 26,8 5,3

119,9
­ 39,7
­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­

348,9
­ 1 721,3
36,1 ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­

(1,4)
15,0 ­
111,7 ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­

3 125,4
­ ­ ­ (92,7) 9,1
781,0 13,9 ­ ­ 65,2 ­ ­

Total liabilities

7 419,3

1 126,2

159,6

2 106,3

125,3

3 901,9

As at 30 June 2007 ­ Rmillion
Liabilities Insurance contracts Financial liabilities
Convertible debentures Preference shares Interest bearing loans Policyholders' profit share Contingency reserves Investment contracts: ­ at fair value through profit or loss Deferred acquisition reserve Provisions Trade and other payable Deferred taxation liabilities Taxation Short-term portion of financial liabilities
Total liabilities

Total

0­6 months

7 ­ 12 months

3 734,1

550,1

97,2

15,0

­

­

126,3

­

­

736,7

675,2

­

(101,3)

­

­

15,5

­

­

793,1

­

­

9,0

­

­

22,7

22,7

­

262,4

262,4

­

72,7

­

­

110,5

110,5

­

12,2

12,2

­

5 808,9

1 633,1

97,2

1­5 years
267,3
­ 126,3
28,1 ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ ­
421,7

5 years

Noliquidity
risk

13,9

2 805,6

15,0

­

­

­

33,4

­

­

(101,3)

­

15,5

­

793,1

­

9,0

­

­

­

­

­

72,7

­

­

­

­

62,3

3 594,6

64 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Capital management
Capital adequacy risk ­ the risk that there are insufficient reserves to provide for variations in actual future experience that is worse than what has been assumed in the financial soundness valuation. The Group must maintain a capital balance that will be at least sufficient to meet obligations in the event of substantial deviations from the main risk assumptions affecting the Group's business. This is used to determine required capital levels that will ensure sustained solvency within an acceptable confidence level.

The Group's objectives when managing capital are:

­ to comply with the insurance capital requirements required by the regulators of the insurance markets where the Group operates;

­ to safeguard the Group's ability to continue as a going concern so that it can continue to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders; and

­ to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing insurance commensurately with the level of risk.

In each country in which the Group operates, the local insurance regulator specifies the minimum amount and type of capital that must be held by each of the subsidiaries in addition to their insurance liabilities. The minimum required capital must be maintained at all times throughout the year. The Group is subject to insurance solvency regulations in all the territories in which it issues insurance and investment contracts, and where it has complied with all the local solvency regulations.

Management regard share capital, share premium, retained earnings, contingency reserve, preference shares and borrowings as capital when managing capital. During the year the Group's strategy remained unchanged from 2007.

The table below summarises the minimum required capital across the Group and the regulatory capital against each of them. These figures are an aggregate number, being the sum of the statutory capital and surplus for each insurance operation in each country subject to local regulatory requirements, which may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.

RMBSI's insurance operations:

Jurisdiction

Statutory Solvency Requirement

Actual Solvency
2008

Actual Solvency
2007

RMB Structured Insurance Limited RMB Specialised Lines Limited RMB Financial Services Limited RMB Structured Insurance Limited PCC RMB Structured Life Limited

South Africa South Africa Ireland
Mauritius South Africa

Minimum 15% of additional assets Minimum 15% of additional assets Minimum 18% of prior year's premium
Minimum 15% of prior year's premium 100%

151% 171%
18%
39% 436%

94% 805%
18%
43% 502%

OUTsurance's insurance operations:

OUTsurance Insurance Group Youi (Pty) Limited

Jurisdiction South Africa Australia

Statutory Solvency Requirement
Minimum 25% of net earned premiums Will be managed in terms of regulatory requirements once trading commences

Actual Solvency
2008
39,2%

Actual Solvency
2007
41,8%

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 65

Notes to the annual financial statements
for the year ended 30 June 2008

1. Property and equipment
At 1 July 2006: Cost Accumulated depreciation
Net book amount
Year ended 30 June 2007 Opening net book amount Additions Disposals Depreciation charge (note 27)
Closing net book amount
At 30 June 2007: Cost Accumulated depreciation
Net book amount
Year ended 30 June 2008 Opening net book amount Additions Disposals Foreign currency translation reserve Depreciation charge (note 27)
Closing net book amount
At 30 June 2008: Cost Accumulated amortisation
Net book amount

Land and buildings Rmillion

Furniture, fittings and equipment
Rmillion

71,5 (4,3) 67,2
67,2 0,5 ­ (1,8)
65,9
72,0 (6,1) 65,9
65,9 ­ ­ ­
(1,8) 64,1
72,0 (7,9) 64,1

118,4 (83,8) 34,6
34,6 20,3 (0,1) (18,5) 36,3
137,8 (101,5)
36,3
36,3 36,0 (0,2) (0,4) (24,7) 47,0
172,4 (125,4)
47,0

Motor vehicles Rmillion
4,6 (1,6) 3,0
3,0 1,9 (2,2) (1,1) 1,6
2,3 (0,7) 1,6
1,6 1,8 (0,3)
­ (0,8) 2,3
3,2 (0,9) 2,3

Total Rmillion
194,5 (89,7) 104,8
104,8 22,7 (2,3) (21,4)
103,8
212,1 (108,3) 103,8
103,8 37,8 (0,5) (0,4) (27,3)
113,4
247,6 (134,2) 113,4

Land and buildings is comprised of Erf 1478, 1479, Zwartkop Ext 7, Centurion. OUTsurance Insurance Company Limited entered into a ten year lease arrangement on 1 February 2004 with an option for the Group to buy the land and buildings at the end of the lease period. The lease agreement is therefore viewed as a finance lease on a Group basis and the land and buildings capitalised accordingly. The lease liability is detailed in note 13.
Motor vehicles with a book value of R2,3 million (2007: R1,6 million) are held under hire purchase agreements as indicated under note 13.
Depreciation expense of R27,3 million (2007: R21,4 million) has been charged in marketing and administration expenses.

66 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

2. Intangible assets
At 1 July 2006: Cost Accumulated amortisation
Net book amount
Year ended 30 June 2007 Opening net book amount Amortisation charge (note 27)
Closing net book amount
At 30 June 2007: Cost Accumulated amortisation
Net book amount
Year ended 30 June 2008 Opening net book amount Additions Amortisation charge (note 27)
Closing net book amount
At 30 June 2008: Cost Accumulated amortisation
Net book amount

Goodwill Rmillion

Intellectual property bonuses Rmillion

Restraint of trade
asset Rmillion

19,7 (16,4)
3,3
3,3 ­
3,3
19,7 (16,4)
3,3
3,3 ­ ­
3,3
19,7 (16,4)
3,3

­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­
­ 23,1 (5,9) 17,2
23,1 (5,9) 17,2

20,5 (10,9)
9,6
9,6 (5,5) 4,1
20,5 (16,4)
4,1
4,1 ­
(4,1) ­
20,5 (20,5)
­

Total Rmillion
40,2 (27,3) 12,9
12,9 (5,5) 7,4
40,2 (32,8)
7,4
7,4 23,1 (10,0) 20,5
63,3 (42,8) 20,5

Amortisation of R10,0 million (2007: R5,5 million) has been included in marketing and administration expenses.
Goodwill is derived from investments in subsidiaries. Goodwill is tested annually for any possible impairment. During the year under review no impairment of goodwill occurred.
The intangible asset ­ restraint of trade asset referred to the purchase of intellectual property by OUTsurance, as well as the conclusion of certain restraint of trade agreements with key personnel of the Group. The effective date of conclusion was 1 April 2008. The asset was carried at cost less accumulated amortisation charges.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 67

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

3. Investment in associates
Shares at cost
Net asset value at acquisition Goodwill created
Amortisation of goodwill Impairment loss Investment in fund consolidated Treasury shares Change in carrying value due to change in effective holding Share of post-acquisition increase in reserves of associate companies
at the beginning of the year Share of retained income for the year Decrease in carrying value of investment due to issuing of shares at a price lower
than net asset value Share of associates' non-distributable reserves Dividend declared by subsidiary to associate

9 021,0
3 807,5 5 213,5
(1 114,9) (14,2)
(182,6) (64,7)
(1 124,5)
10 145,0 2 275,8
(18,5) 501,5 155,0
19 578,9

7 591,6
3 380,9 4 210,7
(1 114,9) (12,8)
(182,6) (181,7) (1 076,2)
7 801,1 2 343,9
(18,5) (50,0) 93,0
15 192,9

Market values and directors' valuation: Listed Unlisted
Analysis of income: Per audited financial statements

25 789,9 52,0
3 786,6

38 353,4 ­
3 589,6

Retained income for the year Dividends received for the year

2 275,8 1 510,8

3 786,6

The impairment loss relates to Glenrand M.I.B Limited as the fair value of the investment is lower than the carrying value.

The Group's interests in its associates, were as follows:

Name of company

Number of shares

FirstRand Limited Discovery Holdings Limited Glenrand M.I.B Limited Swabou Insurance Company Limited
* After consolidation of share trusts

1 694 843 615 148 048 168 35 892 605 49

Further details of listed associates are disclosed in note 36.

2 343,9 1 245,7 3 589,6
% of equity 32,7* 27,1* 15,8* 49,0

68 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

4. Financial assets ­ equity and debt securities
The Group's financial assets are summarised by measurement category in the table below.
Held to maturity Available-for-sale Fair value through profit or loss
The current portion of the financial assets is R5 499,9 million (2007: R4 940,1 million).
The assets included in each of the categories above are detailed in the tables below:
Held to maturity financial assets, at amortised cost Debt securities ­ interest bearing instruments
Financial assets held to maturity are carried on the Group's balance sheet at amortised cost.
At year-end, interest bearing instruments included an inflation-linked annuity issued by the South African National Road Fund for the building of the N3 toll road.
The cash flow stream pays quarterly CPI (metropolitan and other urban areas) adjusted annuities, in February, May, August and November of each year, up to November 2024. The inflationlinked cash flow stream is carried at cost plus interest amortised at the real effective yield of 8,05% per annum and is adjusted for changes in the CPI. The carrying amount is reduced by the cash flows received. The held to maturity value approximates fair value due to the adjustment for change in the CPI.
Available-for-sale financial assets Equity securities ­ unlisted preference shares ­ listed preference shares
Debt securities ­ unlisted preference shares

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

72,5 801,8 5 078,4
5 952,7

67,2 793,7 4 530,1
5 391,0

72,5

67,2

158,5 253,3 411,8
390,0 801,8

162,1 281,6 443,7
350,0 793,7

Unlisted preference share investments are made in special purpose vehicles administered by large South African banks. To mitigate credit risk the unlisted preference share investments are secured by put options to those banks. The purpose of the investments is to match the Group's contractual obligations to pay dividends on the variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares in issue (note 12).
The investments are held to redemption and are carried at fair value. Carrying value is original cost plus accrued dividends, which equals fair value. The preference shares are redeemable at any time with the notice period ranging from thirty days to three years. Accrued dividends are disclosed in loans and receivables (note 5).
Dividend yields range from 58% to 63% of the prime overdraft rate of larger South African banks.
Listed preference shares are carried at fair value as determined by current quoted market bid prices.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 69

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

4. Financial assets ­ equity and debt securities (continued)
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities ­ listed Designated upon initial recognition ­ domestic ­ foreign
Collective investment scheme
Debt securities ­ listed Designated upon initial recognition ­ variable rate ­ fixed rate

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

1 839,4 1 342,1 3 181,5
936,8
317,5 642,6 5 078,4

1 709,9 1 355,6 3 065,5
601,6
472,1 390,9 4 530,1

Listed equity securities are ordinary listed shares traded in organised financial markets. The carrying amount represents the quoted bid prices on these markets at the close of business on the last day of the financial year.

Debt securities represent South African Government issued interest securities and other interest securities listed on the Bond Exchange of South Africa ("BESA"). The carrying amount represents the quoted bid prices at the close of business on the last business day of the financial year.

The collective investment scheme assets are held at fair value through profit or loss. The fair value of these instruments is determined by the quoted repurchase price.

Equity and debt securities classified at fair value through profit or loss are designated in this category upon initial recognition.

The following is a reconciliation of movements in financial assets balances:

Held to maturity Rmillion

Availablefor-sale Rmillion

Fair value through
profit or loss Rmillion

Total Rmillion

At the beginning of 2007 Additions Interest accrued at effective yield Disposals Redemptions Fair value net (losses)/gains
Recognised in income statement Recognised in equity

64,4 ­
9,6 ­
(6,8)
­ ­

796,2 165,1
­ (145,0)
­
­ (22,6)

2 183,1 5 397,5
­ (3 936,0)
­
885,5 ­

3 043,7 5 562,6
9,6 (4 081,0)
(6,8)
885,5 (22,6)

At the end of 2007 Additions Interest accrued at effective yield Disposals Redemptions Fair value net (losses)/gains
Recognised in income statement Recognised in equity
At the end of 2008

67,2 ­
12,7 ­
(7,4)
­ ­
72,5

793,7 140,0
­ (103,6)
­
­ (28,3)
801,8

4 530,1 4 527,2
­ (4 210,4)
­
231,5 ­
5 078,4

5 391,0 4 667,2
12,7 (4 314,0)
(7,4)
231,5 (28,3)
5 952,7

70 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

5. Financial assets ­ loans and receivables including insurance receivables
Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts: ­ Due from policyholders ­ Due from intermediaries ­ Due from reinsurers
Other receivables: ­ accrued investment income ­ income tax receivable ­ other receivables
Loans and receivables are considered current assets.
6. Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts
Gross insurance contracts Short-term insurance contracts ­ claims reported ­ claims incurred but not reported ­ unearned premiums ­ unexpired risk provision ­ insurance contracts cash bonuses Long-term insurance contracts ­ claims incurred but not reported
Total insurance liabilities, gross
Recoverable from reinsurers Short-term insurance contracts ­ claims reported ­ claims incurred but not reported ­ unearned premiums
Total recoverable from reinsurers
Net Short-term insurance contracts ­ claims reported ­ claims incurred but not reported ­ unearned premiums ­ unexpired risk provision ­ insurance contracts cash bonuses Long-term insurance contracts ­ claims incurred but not reported
Total insurance liabilities, net

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
108,9 19,9 57,2
11,8 12,3 53,6 263,7

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
420,4 16,4 33,9
36,4 2,1
12,7 521,9

321,9 351,3 1 115,7 1 419,8 458,2
270,6 3 937,5
27,5 7,6
46,4 81,5
294,4 343,7 1 069,3 1 419,8 458,2
270,6 3 856,0

554,9 394,8 1 126,2 1 248,4 344,9
64,9 3 734,1
9,4 5,9 40,4 55,7
545,5 388,9 1 085,8 1 248,4 344,9
64,9 3 678,4

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 71

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
6. Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts (continued)
6.1 Analysis of movement in net claims reported provision At the beginning of 2007 Current year claims incurred Change in previous year claims estimates Current year claims paid Previous year claims paid Cell captive outstanding claims adjustment
At the end of 2007 Current year claims incurred Change in previous year claims estimates Current year claims paid Previous year claims paid Cell captive outstanding claims adjustment
At the end of 2008
6.2 Analysis of movement in net claims incurred but not reported provision At the beginning of 2007 Current year claims incurred Change in previous year claims estimates Change in assumptions Charge to profit or loss for the year Current year claims paid Previous year claims paid
At the end of 2007 Current year claims incurred Current year claims paid Previous year claims paid
At the end of 2008
6.3 Analysis of movement in unearned premium provision At the beginning of 2007 Charge to profit or loss for the year Unearned commission
At the end of 2007 Charge to profit or loss for the year Unearned commission
At the end of 2008

Gross Rmillion

Re-insurance Rmillion

299,4 2 371,8
19,9 (1 991,6)
(146,4) 1,8
554,9 2 754,5
(25,0) (2 795,5)
(168,4) 1,4
321,9
303,6 160,5 127,9 (20,0)
31,2 ­
(143,5)
459,7 268,6 (105,3)
(1,1)
621,9
1 399,4 (275,0) 1,8
1 126,2 (29,8) 19,3
1 115,7

(8,6) (106,1)
(3,7) 96,7 12,3
­
(9,4) (178,7)
2,4 142,9
15,3 ­
(27,5)
(4,2) (1,7)
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
(5,9) (2,3)
­ 0,6
(7,6)
(11,2) (29,2)
­
(40,4) (6,0) ­
(46,4)

Net Rmillion
290,8 2 265,7
16,2 (1 894,9)
(134,1) 1,8
545,5 2 575,8
(22,6) (2 652,6)
(153,1) 1,4
294,4
299,4 158,8 127,9 (20,0)
31,2 ­
(143,5)
453,8 266,3 (105,3)
(0,5)
614,3
1 388,2 (304,2) 1,8
1 085,8 (35,8) 19,3
1 069,3

72 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

6. Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts (continued)
6.4 Analysis of change in unexpired risk provision Opening balance Charge to profit or loss for the year
Closing balance

1 248,4 171,4
1 419,8

932,0 316,4
1 248,4

6.5 Analysis of movement in insurance contracts cash bonuses Opening balance Cash bonuses paid during the year Charge to profit or loss for the year
Closing balance

344,9 (135,3) 248,6
458,2

271,2 (105,8) 179,5
344,9

6.6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies: The Group makes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities in future years. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Short-term insurance Discounted liabilities The key assumptions used in the calculation of the discounted insurance liabilities are based on the recent experience of the Group's business. The intention is to establish best estimates of the Group's future experience for each element of the actuarial basis.
The most significant assumption and uncertainty affecting the discounted liabilities is:
· Economic assumptions The "BEASSA Zero-Coupon Bonds Perfect Fit" yield curve (nominal annual compounded annually) has been used to discount cashflows.

Undiscounted liabilities The most significant assumptions and uncertainties affecting the undiscounted liabilities, are:
· Unearned premiums provision The assumption regarding the uniform emergence of risk over the policy term. Where relevant, the UPP calculation basis has been adjusted to take into account the actual outstanding risk as well as the pattern of risk expected in future periods.
· Outstanding claims provision The estimation of the liability arising from claims made under insurance contracts is the Group's most critical accounting estimate. Several sources of uncertainty have to be considered in estimating the liability that the Group will ultimately be exposed to for such claims. The risk environment can change quickly and unexpectedly owing to a wide range of events or influences. The Group is constantly refining the tools with which it monitors and manages risks to place the Group in a position to assess risk situations appropriately, despite the greatly increased pace of change.
· Claims incurred but not reported The provision for claims incurred but not reported is estimated based on ­ claims notification period on the policies; ­ nature and size of the insurance coverage; ­ historic experience on the business; ­ the potential termination of the transaction; ­ actual reported claims; and ­ referring to net premiums written.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 73

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

6. Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts (continued)
6.6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies (continued)
· Provision for cash bonuses The provision for cash bonuses is determined by taking into account the past experience and the underlying structure of the cash bonus benefit with the implicit assumption that the future experience will be similar. Management take cognisance of trends that are inherent in the pool of risks that are eligible for this benefit in order to ensure that the reserving rate is sufficient to cover future payments made.

Long-term insurance
Discounted liabilities The key assumptions used in the calculation of the discounted insurance liabilities are based on the recent experience investigations of the Group's business. Every year each assumption is reviewed based on the results of the most recent experience investigations. The intention is to arrive at a best estimate of the Group's experience. In addition compulsory margins are added to allow for risk and uncertainty based on the relevant local Actuarial Guidance Note (PGN104). As at 30 June 2008, the compulsory margins were as follows:

Assumption

Margin

Investment return Mortality Disability Retrenchment Expenses Expense inflation Lapses (where relevant) Surrenders (where relevant)

0,25% increase/decrease* 7,5% increase 10% increase 10% increase 10% increase 10% increase 25% increase/decrease* 10% increase/decrease*

* Depending on which change increases the liability.

No discretionary margins were added. Where data is not credible more prudent assumptions are used based on industry data where available. The results of the experience investigations are briefly described below:

· Demographic assumptions Broad investigations were done on accidental death, accidental total and permanent disability, temporary disability and retrenchment experience. All the assumptions except for the accidental death assumption were left unchanged from the previous year. The additional death assumption was increased from 5 deaths per 1 000 lives per annum to 5,5 deaths per 1 000 lives per annum.

· Economic assumptions ­ Investment return
The investment return assumption for all classes of business was determined as: ~ The expected return on the underlying assets backing the liabilities of the Group; less ~ An allowance for investment expenses; less ~ An allowance for credit risk; less ~ A compulsory margin (prescribed as being 0,25%).

Cash and money market investments are used to back the insurance liabilities. Based on the cash assets and the above assumptions, an investment return of 8,5% per annum (before compulsory margins) was assumed for the insurance contract business.

­ Inflation The current assumed level of future expense inflation is 9% per annum. This level of inflation is currently outside the Reserve Bank's longterm inflation target of between 3% per annum and 6% per annum but is supported by the assumption that life companies typically suffer expense increases slightly above general inflation.

­ Taxation Future taxation and taxation relief are allowed for at the rates and on the bases applicable to Section 29A of the Income Tax Act at the balance sheet date. The Group's current tax position is taken into account and the taxation rates, consistent with that position and the likely future changes in that position, are allowed for.

74 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

6. Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts (continued)
6.6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies (continued) Undiscounted liabilities The IBNR reserves for the Credit Life Business as at 30 June 2008 is determined by applying a multiple to the monthly claims. The multiple as at 30 June 2008, including a compulsory margin of 20%, was 1,65.
For the Group Credit Life business, the IBNR reserve as at 30 June 2008 is determined by using a loss ratio method. The loss ratio as at 30 June 2008, including a compulsory margin of 10%, was 37,8%.
Effect of changes in assumptions The following changes were made to the actuarial valuation basis when compared to last year's basis:
­ The valuation interest rate has been increased from 8,5% to12% per annum; ­ The expense assumption has been increased from R2,20 to R3,35 per policy; ­ The expense inflation assumption has been increased from 6% to 9% per annum; and ­ In line with the revised PGN105 (version 2), the AIDS reserve has been changed from using 20% of the ASSA High Risk Model (2000) to
70% of the ASSA High Risk Model (2003).
The financial impact of the above changes in the valuation basis was an increase in net reserves of R1 619 941 and an increase in gross reserves of R3 787 163.

Changes in insurance liabilities Discounted liabilities The following table shows the build-up of the discounted insurance liabilities over the year:
R'000
Insurance liabilities as at 30 June 2007 Expected investment return on insurance liabilities Expected premiums on insurance liabilities Expected claims, expiries and lapses Expected expenses, commissions and charges Experience variations Changes in valuation assumptions New business added during the year
Insurance liabilities as at 30 June 2008

Net of reinsurance
9 228 404 ­
(4 142) (2 679) (1 180) 1 620 169 850
173 101

Gross of reinsurance
56 885 2 410 ­
(41 081) (2 679) (6 934) 3 787
244 021
256 409

Undiscounted liabilities The following table shows the build-up of the undiscounted insurance liabilities over the year:
R'000 Insurance liabilities as at 30 June 2007 Withdrawals during the year Increase in IBNR on existing business New business added during the year Insurance liabilities as at 30 June 2008

Net of reinsurance
802 (681)
­ 1 391
1 512

Gross of reinsurance
7 951 (6 754)
­ 12 988
14 185

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 75

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

6. Insurance contracts and reinsurance contracts (continued)
6.6 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies (continued) Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the insurance liabilities to the main assumptions was tested by calculating the effect of certain assumptions not being met. The following sensitivities were tested:

­ Increasing renewal expenses by 10%; ­ Increasing the inflation rate by 1% (absolute change in rate); ­ Reducing the valuation interest rate by 1% (absolute change in rate); and ­ Increasing claims experience by 10%.

The sensitivity deviation assumptions are as per standard actuarial practice.

The results of the sensitivity analysis on the net actuarial liabilities at 30 June 2008 can be summarised as follows:

R'000

Net actuarial
liability

Percentage change
relative to main basis

Main basis Expenses + 10% Risk experience + 10% Investment return ­ 1% Inflation + 1%

174 612 175 078 175 697 178 282 174 627

­ 0,27% 0,62% 2,10% 0,01%

The above figures combine discounted and undiscounted liabilities. The latter are not sensitive to the assumptions as they are valued retrospectively.

7. Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relates to the same fiscal authority. The amounts are as follows:
Deferred taxation assets Provisions Secondary tax on companies Unrealised investment gains and losses Tax loss Effect of foreign currency translation adjustment on deferred taxation
Total deferred taxation assets
Deferred taxation liabilities Unrealised investment gains and losses Secondary tax on companies Fair value adjustment on financial assets Finance lease of building Imputation of CFC earnings
Total deferred taxation liabilities

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

136,9 4,1 1,1
53,5 ­
195,6
(45,1) ­
(0,4) (0,6) (19,1)
(65,2)

107,8 ­
(0,1) 37,9
0,2
145,8
(48,8) (4,3) (0,3) (0,2)
(19,1)
(72,7)

76 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

7. Deferred taxation (continued)
Reconciliation of movement Deferred taxation asset at the beginning of the year
Effect of foreign currency translation adjustment on deferred taxation Effect of change in statutory tax rate for companies Deferred tax credit to the income statement for the year (see note 29)
Deferred taxation asset at the end of the year
Deferred taxation liability at the beginning of the year Effect of foreign currency translation adjustment on deferred taxation Balance acquired Prior year STC reclassification Effect of change in statutory tax rate for companies Deferred tax credit/(charge) for the year (see note 29)
Deferred taxation liability at the end of the year
Deferred taxation assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
145,8 ­
(4,3) 54,1 195,6
(72,7) ­ ­ ­
1,7 5,8 (65,2)

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
103,1 0,2 ­
42,5 145,8
(39,3) 2,0 (9,6) 3,0 ­
(28,8) (72,7)

8. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and on hand Short-term bank deposits Money market investments Advances made under resale agreements

465,4 942,0 637,4
12,8
2 057,6

238,7 887,8 806,9
44,8
1 978,2

Cash and cash equivalents represent current accounts, call deposits and short-term fixed deposits with large banks in South Africa, Ireland and Mauritius, or listed South African Government bonds acquired by the Group under resale agreements. The short-term deposits with banks are spread among these banks to reduce the credit risk exposure. Since all short-term deposits and listed South African Government bonds under resale agreements will be held to maturity, it will be carried at cost plus accrued interest.
Advances made under resale agreements are collateralised by listed bond investments, which are South African Government issued interest securities held under short duration resale agreements. At 30 June 2008, the Group held a nominal of R14 million R206 bonds at an effective yield of 10,29%. During the year the average yield earned on bonds under resale agreements amounted to 10,05%.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 77

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

Number of shares
million

Ordinary shares
Rmillion

Share premium Rmillion

Treasury shares
Rmillion

Total Rmillion

9. Share capital and premium
At 1 July 2006 Movement in treasury shares
At 30 June 2007 Issue of shares Movement in treasury shares
At 30 June 2008

1 187,8 ­
1 187,8 21,3 ­
1 209,1

11,9

4 593,1

­

­

11,9

4 593,1

0,2

722,7

­

­

12,1

5 315,8

(139,3) (26,7)
(166,0) ­
34,6
(131,4)

4 465,7 (26,7)
4 439,0 722,9 34,6
5 196,5

The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 2 000 000 000 (2007: 2 000 000 000), with a par value of one cent per share (2007: one cent). During the year 21 302 886 ordinary shares were issued, with a par value of one cent per share, at a premium of R33,93 per share. 10% of the unissued share capital is under the control of the board of directors until the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The total authorised number of redeemable cumulative preference shares is 100 000 000 (2007: 100 000 000), with a par value of one cent per share (2007: one cent). The Company issued 11 800 redeemable cumulative preference shares, with a par value of one cent, at a premium of R99 999,99 per share on 3 January 2008.

Treasury shares The life insurance businesses of associates and a subsidiary acquired RMBH shares as part of their investment programmes aimed at meeting policyholders' liabilities. The investment banking business of an associate traded RMBH shares as part of its proprietary trading activities. These shares are treated as treasury shares and any gains or losses are reversed from Group earnings.

GROUP 2008
million

GROUP 2007
million

Number of shares held at 30 June

9,6

11,5

Weighted number shares held during the year

10,5

13,0

Cost of shares held at 30 June Fair value adjustment
Fair value of treasury shares

Rmillion 131,4 56,7 188,1

Rmillion 166,0 186,9 352,9

The treasury shares are eliminated from the weighted number of shares in issue for the purposes of calculating earnings and headline earnings per share:

GROUP 2008
million

GROUP 2007
million

Weighted number of issued shares Less: weighted number of treasury shares

1 202,0 (10,5)

1 187,8 (13,0)

Weighted number of shares in issue

1 191,5

1 174,8

78 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

10. Reserves
Distributable reserves Retained earnings
Non-distributable reserves ­ equity accounted reserves Equity accounted earnings from associates Change in carrying value of associate due to change in effective holding Treasury shares Non-distributable reserves
Non-distributable reserves ­ other Contingency reserve of subsidiary Retained income transferred due to dilutionary effect of share issue by subsidiary Currency translation reserve Available-for-sale reserve Share based payments reserve Capital surpluses on disposals and restructuring of strategic investments
Total reserves

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

2 563,5
12 420,8 (1 124,5)
195,0 501,4 11 992,7
198,8 17,9 23,9 (34,8) 14,5
333,4 553,7
15 109,9

2 538,4
10 145,0 (1 076,2)
113,0 (49,8) 9 132,0
162,0 25,0 ­ (17,2) 10,5
333,4 513,7
12 184,1

11. Convertible debentures
Convertible debentures in issue

15,0

15,0

The debentures are unsecured and subordinated and can be converted at the option of the debenture holders to non-redeemable preference shares on 30 June or 31 December of any year and are compulsorily convertible to non-redeemable preference shares of R1 each on 30 June 2022. The effective net cost incurred on these instruments amounts to 1,5% per annum.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 79

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

12. Preference shares
Fixed rate cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by Company At beginning of year 7 800 (2007: Nil) Preference shares issued
At end of year

­

­

780,0

­

780,0

­

The Company issued 7 800 fixed rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, with a par value of one cent, at a premium of R99 999,99 per share on 3 January 2008. The shares are redeemable at the discretion of the Company at any time and compulsorily redeemable on 27 November 2012. The preference shares pay dividends, bi-annually, at a fixed rate of 8,55% per annum.

Variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by Company At beginning of year 4 000 (2007: Nil) Preference shares issued Dividends capitalised

­

­

400,0

­

14,8

­

At end of year

414,8

­

The Company issued 4 000 variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, with a par value of one cent, at a premium of R99 999,99 per share on 3 January 2008. The shares are redeemable at the discretion of the Company at any time and compulsorily redeemable on 27 November 2012. Preference shares of R270 million accrue dividends at a rate of 63,5% of the prime interest rate, which is capitalised. The remaining preference shares of R130 million pay dividends, bi-annually, at a rate of 63,5% of the prime interest rate.
Cumulative redeemable preference shares issued by subsidiary At beginning of year 2 (2007: 1 000) Preference shares issued Nil (2007: 141) Preference shares redeemed
At end of year

126,3 2,4 ­
128,7

126,5 1,2 (1,4)
126,3

A subsidiary has 100 000 authorised variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares of 1 cent each and has issued 2 155 (2006: 2 153) of these preference shares. During the year 2 (2007: 1000) variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares were issued and no (2007: 141) variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares were redeemed.
The variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares are redeemable at the discretion of the directors of the subsidiary Company.
The holders of fixed and variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares have no voting rights at any meeting of the company or subsidiary company, unless dividends payable on these shares are in arrears, the redemption payment of any capital is in arrears, or if a resolution is passed which affects the rights attached to the preference shares, or where the Company or subsidiary company proposes to dispose of a material portion of its assets.

80 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

12. Preference shares (continued)
The following variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares are issued to investors to meet the short-term insurance subsidiaries' statutory solvency requirements:
Issued to investors to meet Group's capital requirements
Redeemable preference shares of R10 million accrue dividends at a rate, which varies between 58% and 62,5% of the prime interest rate. The remaining redeemable preference shares of R5 million accrue dividends at a fixed rate of 10% per annum. The cost of funding is expensed to profit/(loss) before tax.
Redeemable preference shares are issued to certain policyholders to meet the capital requirements of their cells
Some redeemable preference shares accrue dividends equal to dividends received from an investment in redeemable preference shares which is disclosed as available-for-sale financial assets (note 4). The Group does not incur any costs with regard to these redeemable preference shares.
Redeemable preference shares issued to policyholders may also entitle the policyholder to participate in the operating result of its business cell, distributed as a dividend. The dividends paid are included in dividends accrued on the redeemable preference share liability in the income statement.
13. Interest bearing loans
Hire purchase agreements on motor vehicles Finance lease Unsecured bank borrowing originated by the Group Secured bank borrowing originated by the Group Unsecured borrowing originated by the Group Funding raised by the Company
Hire purchase agreements on motor vehicles A subsidiary entered into hire purchase agreements to purchase motor vehicles. The hire purchase agreements are secured over certain of the motor vehicles with a book value of R2,3 million (2007: R1,5 million). The borrowings are repayable in monthly instalments. The borrowings attract interest at the bank's prime overdraft rate less 1,25% per annum.
Hire purchase agreements on motor vehicles Less: amounts due within one year
Reconciliation of borrowings ­ hire purchase agreements Opening balance Borrowings repaid during the year New borrowings raised during the year
Closing balance

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

15,1

15,1

113,6

111,2

1,4 56,4
­ 322,1
90,0 57,6
527,5

0,6 60,9
­ 320,9
­ 354,3
736,7

2,2

1,2

(0,8)

(0,6)

1,4

0,6

1,2

3,2

(0,8)

(3,9)

1,8

1,9

2,2

1,2

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 81

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

0 ­ 12 months Rmillion

2­5 years Rmillion

Beyond 5 years Rmillion

13. Interest bearing loans (continued)
The present value of future payments are: Capital Interest

0,8

1,4

­

0,3

0,3

­

Finance lease The finance lease is secured by land and buildings with a book value of R64,1 million (2007: R65,9 million). A subsidiary entered into a ten year lease on 1 February 2004. A Group company has an option to purchase the land and buildings at the end of the ten year lease and as a result of this the rental lease is treated as a finance lease in the books of the Group. The lease is payable monthly in advance and expires on 31 January 2014. The liability represents the present value of the discounted expected future lease cash flows at an average market value of 12,42% per annum.

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

Finance lease Less: amounts due within one year

60,9 (4,5)

64,2 (3,3)

56,4

60,9

Reconciliation of borrowings ­ finance lease Opening balance Borrowings repaid during the year
Closing balance

64,2 (3,3)
60,9

66,5 (2,3)
64,2

The present value of future payments are: Capital Interest Unsecured bank borrowing originated by the Group The borrowing was unsecured and repaid during the previous financial year.
The closing carrying amount at 30 June 2008 is analysed as follows: Cost Repayments Interest accrued on the effective yield

0 ­ 12 months Rmillion
4,5 6,9

2­5 years Rmillion
34,6 19,8
GROUP 2008
Rmillion
­ ­ ­ ­

Beyond 5 years Rmillion
21,8 1,4
GROUP 2007
Rmillion
50,0 (50,6)
0,6 ­

82 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

13. Interest bearing loans (continued)
Secured bank borrowing originated by the Group A subsidiary company obtained a credit facility of R500 million from FirstRand Bank Limited subject to a surety from RMB Holdings Limited of R400 million. During the year interest accrued at an average rate of 11,23% per annum. The borrowing is refinanced on a regular basis.
The closing carrying amount at 30 June is analysed as follows:
Cost Repayments Interest accrued on the effective yield

328,8 (14,7)
8,0
322,1

330,5 (11,0)
1,4
320,9

Unutilised credit facilities at the year-end amounted to R178 million (2007: R80 million).

Unsecured borrowing originated by the Group A subsidiary company obtained funding from its shareholders to fund its Australian expansion. The intention is to convert the loan to non-redeemable, non-cumulative preference shares. The balance disclosed is after elimination of Group balances. During the year interest accrued at a rate of 75% of the prime rate.

Funding raised by the Company The Company financed its obligations by means of a loan obtained from Rand Merchant Bank, a division of FirstRand Bank Limited. The loan is unsecured and bears interest at a rate linked to the prime interest rate.

14. Policyholders' profit share
Reconciliation of carrying value Balance at the beginning of the year Transfer from/(to) contingency provision Cell shares written off Transfer to profit or loss
Balance at the end of the year

(101,3) 6,4
319,4 (317,2)
(92,7)

(48,8) (0,2) ­
(52,3)
(101,3)

An analysis of revenue reserves is made between retained earnings attributable to shareholders and policyholders. The policyholders' interest represents the accumulated profit or loss after tax and dividends attributable to policyholders.

15. Policyholders' contingency provision
Reconciliation of carrying value Balance at the beginning of the year Transfer (to)/from policyholders' profit share account
Balance at the end of the year

15,5

15,3

(6,4)

0,2

9,1

15,5

A provision is made in respect of certain of the Group's short-term insurance operations in South Africa as required by the regulatory authorities. This provision is held for policyholders and transfers to/from this provision are reflected in the policyholders' profit share account. The contingency provision is not distributable to shareholders.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 83

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
16. Investment contracts
Reconciliation of carrying value Balance at the beginning of the year Premium received Fees deducted from account balances (note 21) Fair value movement credited to profit or loss (note 25) Balance at the end of the year
Investment contracts were designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. The liabilities originated from unit-linked contracts are measured with reference to their respective underlying assets. Changes in the credit risk of the entity does not impact the measurement of the unit-linked liabilities.
17. Liability related to intangible asset
Liability related to restraint of trade asset Present value of loan Finance charges on unwinding of liability Payments made during the year
Net liability at the end of the year Less: amounts due within one year
The liability has been determined by discounting future cash flows in respect of the restraint of trade at appropriate market rates. The discount rate used was 7% (2007: 7%), being comparable to the Group's opportunity cost of cash on hand. The restraint of trade agreement expired on 1 April 2008.
18. Provisions
Staff incentive bonus Balance at the beginning of the year Additional provisions Unutilised provisions reversed Utilised during the year Balance at the end of the year
All amounts are expected to be settled in 12 months.
19. Trade and other payables
Trade payables and accrued expenses Unclaimed dividends Redeemable preference share dividends payable Profit participation payable Due to reinsurers Due to intermediaries

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

793,1 2,0 (1,1)
(13,0)
781,0

630,2 ­
(3,9) 166,8
793,1

8,3 (0,3) (8,0)
­ ­
­

13,9 (0,1) (5,5)
8,3 (8,3)
­

22,7 30,5 (0,8) (31,1)
21,3

21,1 34,9 (1,5) (31,8)
22,7

118,6 9,9
19,5 58,7 96,2
5,8
308,7

92,3 7,8 9,5
59,7 87,2
5,9
262,4

84 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

20. Net insurance premium revenue
Long-term insurance contracts Short-term insurance contracts
Premiums receivable Change in unearned premium provision
Premium revenue arising from insurance contracts issued
Short-term reinsurance contracts Premiums payable Change in unearned premium provision
Premium revenue ceded to reinsurers on insurance contracts issued
Net insurance premium revenue
21. Fee income
Policy fees earned Take-on fees earned Collection fees earned Policy administration and asset management services on investment contracts (note 16) Other fee income
Policy fees are monthly or annual fees charged for the administration of policies. Collection fees are charged for the electronic collection of premiums and take-on fees are administration fees charged to new clients.
Other fee income was received for administration and accounting services rendered.
22. Investment income
Available-for-sale: ­ dividend income Fair value assets ­ interest received ­ dividend income Held to maturity interest income Cash and cash equivalents interest income Loans and receivables interest income Foreign currency translation loss Realised loss on investment Loss on dilution in holding

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
844,0
4 460,6 29,9
5 334,5
(166,1) 5,9
(160,2) 5 174,3
15,6 17,8 30,5
1,1 8,6 73,6

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
696,8
4 439,0 275,1
5 410,9
(113,6) 29,1 (84,5)
5 326,4
14,8 17,8 24,1
3,9 6,5 67,1

78,7
81,1 85,5 12,7 135,3 10,6
2,7 ­
(9,5)
397,1

95,0
­ 8,6 9,6 121,0 0,4 (0,1) (11,0) (4,7)
218,8

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 85

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
23. Net fair value gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Fair value gains ­ designated upon initial recognition Fair value losses ­ designated upon initial recognition
Net fair value gains and losses comprise: Equity securities
Dividend income Interest income Unrealised mark to market Realised mark to market Debt securities Interest income Unrealised mark to market Realised mark to market
Total net fair value gains

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
277,5 (48,6) 228,9
131,6 39,5 0,6 (79,7)
171,2 97,3 27,3 (28,5) 98,5
228,9

24. Insurance benefits and claims incurred
2007 Claims paid
Long-term insurance contracts Short-term insurance contracts Change in provision for outstanding claims Short-term insurance contracts Change in IBNR Long-term insurance contracts Short-term insurance contracts Change in provision for unexpired risks Short-term insurance contracts
2008 Claims paid
Long-term insurance contracts Short-term insurance contracts Change in provision for outstanding claims Short-term insurance contracts Change in IBNR Long-term insurance contracts Short-term insurance contracts Change in provision for unexpired risks Short-term insurance contracts

Gross Rmillion

Re-insurance Rmillion

(51,3)

­

(2 189,4)

0,3

(255,6)

6,4

2,6

­

(158,7)

1,7

(316,3)

­

(2 968,7)

8,4

(63,4)

­

(2 813,9)

19,5

233,0

19,4

(205,8)

­

43,5

1,8

(171,4)

­

(2 978,0)

40,7

86 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
992,3 (3,6)
988,7
821,8 41,3 0,2
597,1 183,2 166,9
20,0 153,2
(6,3)
988,7
Net Rmillion
(51,3) (2 189,1)
(249,2)
2,6 (157,0)
(316,3) (2 960,3)
(63,4) (2 794,4)
252,4
(205,8) 45,3
(171,4) (2 937,3)

25. Investment contract benefits
Investment contract benefits
Benefits from unit linked investment contracts are accrued to the account of the contract holder as the fair value of the net gains arising from the underlying linked assets. All these contracts are designated as at fair value through profit or loss (note 16).
26. Acquisition expenses
Expenses by nature: Commission paid Deferred acquisition cost Profit participation paid
27. Marketing and administration expenses
Expenses by nature: Depreciation Employee benefit expense Professional fees and regulatory compliance cost Insurance Operating lease rentals Asset management services Restraint of trade amortisation Audit fees Loss on sale of property and equipment Other expenses
Depreciation Buildings Computer equipment Furniture and fittings Motor vehicles
Employee benefit expense Salaries and incentive bonuses Share based payment charge Retirement funding Service cost relating to intellectual property Other employee benefit expenses
Audit fees Statutory audit ­ current year Statutory audit ­ under provision prior year Other services

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
13,0

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
(166,8)

(1 215,5) (6,7)
(132,1)
(1 354,3)

(1 360,4) (1,0)
(120,1)
(1 481,5)

(27,3) (410,2)
(5,3) (0,6) (4,9) (8,2) (4,1) (4,0) (0,3) (215,6)
(680,5)
(1,8) (21,4)
(3,3) (0,8)
(27,3)
(376,2) (0,5)
(27,2) (5,9) (0,4)
(410,2)
(3,7) (0,2) (0,1)
(4,0)

(21,4) (308,9)
(4,2) (0,2) (5,5) (5,7) (5,5) (3,2) (0,5) (203,7)
(558,8)
(1,8) (15,6)
(2,9) (1,1)
(21,4)
(282,6) (5,9)
(20,0) ­
(0,4)
(308,9)
(2,8) (0,3) (0,1)
(3,2)

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 87

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
28. Finance costs
Interest paid on compulsory convertible debentures Interest paid on bank borrowings Interest paid on unsecured borrowings Interest paid on building lease Dividends on redeemable preference shares Other interest paid
29. Taxation
SA normal taxation Current tax Current year Previous year Deferred tax Current year Previous year Tax rate adjustment Secondary tax on companies Foreign currency adjustment Secondary tax on companies ­ current
Mauritian Tax Current tax Current year Previous year Deferred tax Current year Previous year
Irish Tax Current tax Current year Previous year Deferred tax Current year Previous year

GROUP 2008
Rmillion
(2,0) (55,6)
(5,4) (7,4) (78,6) (2,7)
(151,7)

GROUP 2007
Rmillion
(1,7) (44,9)
­ (7,7) (118,4) (5,2)
(177,9)

(293,4) 13,2
43,7 (3,7) (2,6) 8,4 (0,9) (57,8)
(1,5) ­
11,5 ­
(7,0) ­
­ ­ (290,1)

(283,1) 6,6
13,0 ­ ­ ­ ­
(55,6)
­ ­
0,7 ­
(14,3) ­
­ ­ (332,7)

88 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

29. Taxation (continued)
The tax on the Group's profits before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory tax rate of South Africa as follows:
Profit before taxation
Statutory tax rate Net income and expenses not subject to tax Impact of rate adjustment on deferred tax Tax on capital profits Transfer from policyholders' profit share Dividends paid on preference shares Prior year adjustments Recognition of deferred tax Income tax rate differential Imputed net income from controlled foreign company Deferred tax assets not recognised in respect of insurance reserves Mauritius ­ Category I Global Business License tax rebate at 80% of current tax charge Mauritius ­ Tax losses brought forward Mauritius ­ Tax credit Associate equity accounted using after tax profits Secondary tax on companies
Effective tax rate
30. Headline earnings per share
Headline earnings per share is calculated by dividing the adjusted earnings attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Headline earnings reconciliation Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Loss on dilution of shareholding Impairment loss Adjustments made by associates:
Profit on VISA listing Realised profit on sale of available-for-sale assets Profit on sale of shares in subsidiary and associates Net asset value in excess of purchase price of subsidiaries Profit on sale of property and equipment Impairment of goodwill Impairment of non-current asset Impairment of intangible asset Profit on disposal of investments Other Tax effect of adjustments Total minority interest in adjustments
Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

4 640,2
% 28,00 (0,17)
0,05 ­
(1,91) 1,16 (0,29) (1,19) 1,24 0,09 (0,28) 1,00
­ (0,13) (22,56) 1,24
6,25

4 710,4
% 29,00 (5,02)
­ 0,23 (0,32) 1,69 (0,14) 0,61 (0,09) 0,25 1,96 (0,13)
­ ­ (22,26) 1,28
7,06

4 121,5 9,5 1,4
(344,1) (75,9)
(130,8) (7,9) (1,3) 10,8 3,5 34,0 (2,9) 8,0 72,7 15,0
3 713,5

4 108,9 4,7
12,8
­ (283,2)
(25,6) ­
(2,6) 20,0
­ 18,1 (10,4)
­ 34,8 23,0
3 900,5

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 89

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
30. Headline earnings per share (continued)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Headline earnings per share (cents): ­ basic Headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Dilution on earnings from associates Diluted headline earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Headline earnings per share (cents): ­ diluted
31. Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Earnings per share (cents): ­ basic Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Dilution on earnings from associates Diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Earnings per share (cents): ­ diluted
32. Dividend per share
Total dividends paid during the year Total dividends declared during the year Number of ordinary shares in issue Dividends declared per share (cents)

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

1 191 511 951 311,7
3 713,5 (63,9)
3 649,6
1 191 511 951 306,3

1 174 851 804 332,0
3 900,5 (101,1)
3 799,4
1 174 851 804 323,4

4 121,5 1 191 511 951
345,9 4 121,5
(71,5)
4 050,0
1 191 511 951 339,9

4 108,9 1 174 851 804
349,7 4 108,9
(107,2)
4 001,7
1 174 851 804 340,6

1 784,5 1 710,9 1 209 111 456
141,5

1 478,8 1 680,7 1 187 808 570
141,5

90 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

33. Related parties
Principal shareholders Details of major shareholders are disclosed in the directors' report. The principal shareholders are Remgro Limited, Mr Dippenaar and Mr Ferreira.

Key management personnel Only RMBH's directors are key management personnel. Information on directors' emoluments and their shareholding in the Company appears in the directors' report.

Subsidiaries Details of income from and investments in subsidiaries are disclosed in note 37.

RMBSI paid RMBH a guarantee fee of R4,7 million for surety provided by RMBH in respect of a loan obtained by RMBSI (see note 13).

Associates Details of income from and investments in associates are disclosed in note 36.

Other RMBH invested in preference shares issued by New Seasons Financial Services (Pty) Limited ("NSFS"). NSFS is a shareholder of RMBSI.

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

Related party transactions
Transactions of RMB Holdings Limited and its subsidiary companies with: Principal shareholders Dividends paid
During the current year the Group acquired 27 008 590 Discovery Holdings Limited shares from Remgro Limited. The purchase consideration was settled through the issue of 21 302 886 ordinary shares to Remgro Limited.
Key management personnel Salaries and other benefits Directors' fees
Associates Income statement effect:
Dividends received Dividends paid Gross insurance premiums revenue Gross change in unearned premium Fee and commission income Investment income Preference dividends received Net fair value gains on assets at fair value through profit or loss Administration fee income Insurance benefits and claims incurred Acquisition expenses Bank charges Asset managers administration fees Operating lease rentals Retirement fund contributions Medical aid premiums paid Preference dividends paid Finance costs

687,6

562,3

7,5 1,2
1 510,8 190,1 65,0 19,9 1,0 194,8 24,0 23,4 ­ (636,0) 209,9 8,4 5,3 13,1 1,0 21,6 62,2 70,0

7,5 0,8
1 245,7 118,8 25,0 173,2 6,5 99,1 8,4 13,6 2,5 (656,9) 159,6 6,5 3,7 11,3 1,1 17,7 ­ 48,5

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 91

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
33. Related parties (continued)
Related party transactions (continued) Balance sheet effect:
Financial assets ­ available-for-sale Financial assets ­ at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables Reinsurers' share of insurance contracts provision Cash and cash equivalents Insurance contracts Interest bearing loans
Balance 1 July Borrowing (repaid)/raised Capitalised interest
Balance 30 June
Convertible debentures Preference shares Trade and other payable
During the current year the Group acquired 25 900 718 Discovery Holdings Limited shares from the FirstRand Group.
Other Income statement effect
Investment income
Balance sheet effect: Financial assets ­ available-for-sale Loans and receivables
Transactions of RMB Holdings Limited's key management with associates of the Group: Loans in the normal course of business (mortgages, other loans, instalment finance and credit cards)
Balance 1 July Granted during the year Repayments during the year Interest paid
Balance 30 June
Cheque and current accounts Balance 1 July Net (withdrawals)/deposits Net interest, fees and bank charges
Balance 30 June

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

106,6 94,8 33,4 ­
1 584,7 2 155,8
675,2 (223,3)
17,8
469,7
15,0 1 199,9
21,1

179,1 55,6 19,0 9,0
1 071,4 1 993,0
337,1 317,2
20,9
675,2
15,0 15,1 15,5

5,9

4,8

30,2

33,8

1,5

3,2

(25,0) (141,2) 163,4
(1,1) (3,9)
15,0 (110,4)
(9,6) (105,0)

­ (45,0) 21,0
(1,0) (25,0)
7,0 7,0 1,0 15,0

92 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

33. Related parties (continued)
Related party transactions (continued) Savings accounts
Balance 1 July Net deposits/(withdrawals) Interest income
Balance 30 June
Investment products Fund value opening balance Deposits Net investment return Commission and other transaction fees
Fund closing balance
Other fees Financial consulting fees and commissions paid

GROUP 2008
Rmillion

GROUP 2007
Rmillion

32,0 2,2 3,0
37,2
704,0 162,9 (42,5)
(5,0) 819,4
(4,3)

33,0 (4,0) 3,0 32,0
474,0 60,0
173,0 (3,0)
704,0
(3,0)

34. Retirement benefits
Group companies are participants in a defined contribution pension fund and a defined contribution provident fund.
To the extent that the Group is responsible for contributions to these funds, such contributions are charged against income as incurred. The funds are registered in terms of the Pension Funds Act, 1956.
35. Post balance sheet event
Final dividend declaration The final dividend declaration is dealt with in the directors' report.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 93

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

FirstRand Ltd

2008

2007

Rmillion

Rmillion

Glenrand M.I.B Ltd

2008

2007

Rmillion

Rmillion

36. Associates
Listed associates Financial year-end Year-end used for equity accounting Country of incorporation Number of shares held ('000) Interest held (%) (after consolidation of share trust) Carrying value of investment in associates

30 June

30 June

30 June

30 June

Republic of South Africa

1 694 844

1 694 844

32,71%

32,78%

16 869,7

15 143,0

30 June

30 June

30 June

30 June

Republic of South Africa

35 893

35 893

15,84%

15,84%

35,9

49,9

Total share of post-acquisition increase in reserves of associates Income attributable to RMBH for the year Less: Dividends received

12 896,0

10 139,5

17,4

30,0

3 585,5

3 576,9

(13,0)

12,7

(1 479,0)

(1 245,7)

­

­

Share of retained income for the year

2 106,5

2 331,2

(13,0)

12,7

Market value

22 541,4

38 303,5

35,9

49,9

Glenrand M.I.B is equity accounted on the basis that RMBH is represented on the board of directors and is the largest individual shareholder.

94 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

36. Associates (continued)
Balance sheet Assets
Cash and short term funds Derivative financial instruments Advances Investment securities and investments Commodities Accounts receivable Investment in associates and joint venture companies Property and equipment Deferred taxation Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs Investment properties Policy loans on insurance contracts Reinsurance assets Tax asset Assets classified as held for sale Assets arising from insurance contracts
Total assets
Shareholders' equity and liabilities Deposits Short trading positions Derivative financial instruments Creditors and accruals Provisions Tax liability Post-retirement funding liability Deferred taxation Long-term liabilities Reinsurance liabilities Policyholders' liabilities under insurance contracts Policyholders' liabilities under investment contracts Liabilities arising to third parties Deferred revenue liability Liabilities classified as held for sale Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders Minority interest
Total shareholders' equity and liabilities
Income statement Net profit for the year
Contingencies and commitments

FirstRand Ltd

2008

2007

Rmillion

Rmillion

48 486,0 64 314,0 446 286,0 214 353,0
1 916,0 8 093,0
13 303,0 8 859,0 1 456,0 4 497,0 3 808,0 212,0 550,0 833,0 3 092,0 ­
820 058,0
488 423,0 33 450,0 51 595,0 13 051,0 3 275,0 666,0 1 980,0 5 372,0 13 941,0 ­ 43 417,0
110 784,0 2 742,0 296,0 ­
48 689,0 2 377,0
820 058,0
13 033,0
77 420,0

46 952,0 33 244,0 378 945,0 221 950,0
1 118,0 9 257,0
11 809,0 6 411,0 1 306,0 4 302,0 2 356,0 166,0 595,0 34,0 ­ 3 114,0
721 559,0
416 507,0 36 870,0 24 505,0 13 887,0 3 598,0 1 368,0 1 882,0 6 279,0 9 250,0 20,0 46 979,0
111 239,0 1 568,0 387,0 ­
43 548,0 3 672,0
721 559,0
13 078,0
75 713,0

Glenrand M.I.B Ltd

2008

2007

Rmillion

Rmillion

­ ­ ­ 4,4 ­ 511,6
­ 20,3 36,7 119,3
­ ­ ­ ­ 2 918,2 ­
3 610,5
­ ­ ­ 534,3 ­ ­ ­ 8,6 48,1 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 2 902,8 112,7 4,0
3 610,5
(80,0)
­

­ ­ ­ 10,4 ­ 427,2
­ 23,4 40,6 84,4
6,4 ­ ­ ­
5 398,1 ­
5 990,5
­ ­ ­ 351,9 ­ ­ ­ 0,1 34,6 ­ ­ ­ ­ ­ 5 407,5 192,4 4,0
5 990,5
84,2
­

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 95

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
36. Associates (continued)
Listed associates Financial year-end Year-end used for equity accounting Country of incorporation Number of shares held ('000) Interest held (%) (after consolidation of share trust) Carrying value of investment in associates Total share of post-acquisition increase in reserves of associates Income attributable to RMBH for the year Less: Dividends received Share of retained income for the year Market value Balance sheet Assets
Cash and short term funds Investment in associates and joint ventures companies Property and equipment Deferred taxation Intangible assets and deferred acquisition costs Reinsurance contracts Financial assets Assets arising from insurance contracts Total assets Shareholders' equity and liabilities Creditors and accruals Provisions Tax liability Deferred taxation Financial liabilities Reinsurance liabilities Policyholders' liabilities under insurance contracts Deferred revenue liability Capital and reserves attributable to equity holders Total shareholders' equity and liabilities
Income statement Net profit for the year
* Direct interest acquired during November 2007.
96 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Discovery Holdings Ltd*

2008

2007

Rmillion

Rmillion

30 June

30 June

Republic of South Africa

148 048

­

27,11%

­

2 667,4

­

143,9

­

213,1

­

(31,8)

­

181,3

­

3 212,6

­

812,0

­

1,0

­

291,0

­

128,0

­

243,0

­

99,0

­

5 299,0

­

3 920,0

­

10 793,0

­

1 116,0

­

54,0

­

9,0

­

1 031,0

­

1 273,0

­

15,0

­

1 061,0

­

70,0

­

6 164,0

­

10 793,0

­

1 158,0

­

37. Subsidiaries
Unlisted subsidiaries Financial year-end Year-end used for consolidation Country of incorporation Number of shares held ('000) Interest held (%) (after consolidation of share trust) Shares at cost Indebtedness ­ to subsidiaries ­ by subsidiaries (eliminated on consolidation) Net profit for the year Directors' valuation of RMBH's investment Income statement Gross premiums written Reinsurance premiums
Net premiums written Change in the gross provision for unearned premiums Change in the reinsurers' share of provision for unearned premiums
Earned premiums, net of reinsurance Commission income Insurance related fee income Investment income
Total revenue Claims incurred, net of reinsurance
Gross amount Reinsurers' share
Investment contract benefits Transfer from policyholders' profit share Provision for OUTbonus Acquisition expenses Marketing and administration expenses
Results from operating activities Dividends accrued on preference shares in issue Finance costs Share of profit from associates
Net profit before taxation Taxation
Net profit for the year
* Indirectly held through FirstRand STI Holdings Limited. ** Indirectly held through RMBSI Investments (Pty) Limited.

OUTsurance Ltd*

2008

2007

Rmillion

Rmillion

RMB Structured Insurance Ltd**

2008

2007

Rmillion

Rmillion

30 June

30 June

30 June

30 June

Republic of South Africa

1 584 225

1 584 225

61,86%

62,23%

90,0

90,0

­ 90,0 566,8 2 844,5

­ ­ 467,1 2 366,6

3 598,4 (271,2)
3 327,2 (7,0)
0,8
3 321,0 38,4 63,9
300,3
3 723,6 (1 810,4)
(1 961,8) 151,4
­ ­ (248,6) (184,1) (608,3)
872,2 ­
(20,8) 1,0
852,4 (285,6)
566,8

2 959,4 (215,3)
2 744,1 (29,6)
0,8
2 715,3 31,1 56,7
192,6
2 995,7 (1 431,5)
(1 543,8) 112,3
­ ­ (179,5) (168,5) (490,8)
725,4 ­
(8,5) ­
716,9 (249,8)
467,1

30 June

30 June

30 June

30 June

Republic of South Africa

200 000

200 000

80,63%

80,00%

25,5

25,5

­ ­ 93,0 283,8

­ ­ 89,9 402,2

1 939,2 (128,0)
1 811,2 36,9
5,2
1 853,3 23,2 9,7
384,3
2 270,5 (1 126,9)
(1 155,3) 28,4
13,0 317,2
­ (1 208,6)
(51,2)
214,0 (61,3) (44,6)
­
108,1 (15,1)
93,0

2 361,6 (83,5)
2 278,1 304,7
28,4
2 611,2 ­
14,9 713,4
3 339,5 (1 528,9)
(1 531,5) 2,6
(166,8) 52,3 ­
(1 343,6) (38,0)
314,5 (156,4)
(33,5) ­
124,6 (34,7)
89,9

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 97

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

Rmillion
38. Segment report
Primary segments (business) Year ended 30 June 2008 Share of associates Operating profit Finance costs Profit before taxation Taxation Profit for the year
Rmillion As at 30 June 2008 Segment assets Associates Goodwill Total assets Segment liabilities
Rmillion Year ended 30 June 2007 Share of associates Operating profit Finance costs Profit before taxation Taxation Profit for the year
Rmillion As at 30 June 2007 Segment assets Associates Goodwill Total assets Segment liabilities

Banking & financial services

Long-term insurance

3 060,7 ­ ­
3 060,7 ­
3 060,7

956,5 ­ ­
956,5 ­
956,5

Banking, financial services
& long-term insurance

Banking & financial services

­ 19 573,0
­ 19 573,0
­
Long-term insurance

3 052,1 ­ ­
3 052,1 ­
3 052,1

874,4 ­ ­
874,4 ­
874,4

Banking, financial services
& long-term insurance

­ 15 192,9
­
15 192,9
­

Short-term insurance
1,0 1 041,7
(82,2) 960,5 (300,7) 659,8
Short-term insurance
7 316,8 5,9 3,3
7 326,0 5 595,0
Short-term insurance
­ 1 002,0
(157,0) 845,0 (284,5) 560,5
Short-term insurance
6 800,7 ­
3,3 6 804,0 5 354,9

Other

Total

(231,6) (36,4) (69,5)
(337,5) 10,6
(326,9)

3 786,6 1 005,3 (151,7)
4 640,2 (290,1)
4 350,1

Other
1 393,5 ­ ­
1 393,5 1 347,1
Other
(336,9) 296,7 (20,9) (61,1) (48,2) (109,3)

Total
8 710,3 19 578,9
3,3 28 292,5
6 942,1
Total
3 589,6 1 298,7
(177,9) 4 710,4
(332,7) 4 377,7

Other
1 406,8 ­ ­
1 406,8 454,0

Total
8 207,5 15 192,9
3,3 23 403,7
5 808,9

98 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

38. Segment report (continued)
The Group is organised into four main business segments: ­ Banking and financial services ­ consists of the banking business of FirstRand and the financial services business of Glenrand M.I.B. ­ Long-term insurance ­ consists of the insurance business of FirstRand & Discovery. ­ Short-term insurance ­ consists of the insurance business of OUTsurance and RMB Structured Insurance. ­ Other ­ consists of the holding company revenues and costs in respect of RMB Holdings Limited and FirstRand Limited. All transactions between the different business segments are conducted at arm's length. Secondary segments (geographical) The directors consider that there is only one geographical segment, being Southern Africa.
39. Share trusts
RMBH does not operate a share incentive scheme in its own right. FirstRand STI Holdings Limited has an equity settled share scheme. The FirstRand STI Holdings Share Trust ("the OUTsurance trust") was registered on 11 November 1999 under Trust No. IT.11708/99. In terms of the current trust deed, 12% of the issued share capital of the company is available to the OUTsurance trust for the granting of options to employees. The OUTsurance trust currently holds 3,4% (2007: 3,9%) of the shares in FirstRand STI Holdings Limited. Options have been granted to certain employees on these shares. The vesting period of the options granted is 5 years. The options vest in three equal tranches at the end of years 3, 4 and 5. Options may be exercised at any point during the 5 year period. An expense of R4,6 million (2007: R5,6 million) relating to this scheme was recognised in the income statement. RMB Structured Insurance (Pty) Limited has an equity settled share scheme. The RMB-SI Investments Share Trust ("the RMBSI Trust") was created to give certain employees of RMB Structured Insurance Limited the opportunity to acquire shares in RMBSI. The maximum number of scheme shares shall not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of RMBSI. The RMBSI trust currently holds 4,6% (2007: 3,9%) of the shares in RMBSI. The vesting period of the options granted is 5 years. The options vest in three equal tranches at the end of years 3, 4 and 5. Options may be exercised at any point during the 5 year period. An expense of R0,5 million (2007: R0,3 million) relating to this scheme was recognised in the income statement.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 99

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

40. Restatement of comparatives
In July 2007 a new headline earnings circular, Circular 8/2007, was issued by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants. Circular 8/2007 sets out specific industry exceptions that are applicable to the FirstRand Group. One of these exceptions relates to the inclusion of profit or losses made on the sale of private equity associates and joint ventures in headline earnings. In previous periods the profit or loss made on sale of private equity associates and joint ventures were excluded from headline earnings. The Group has included these profits or losses in headline earnings and has restated the 30 June 2007 headline earnings results accordingly.

The impact of the above mentioned restatements is shown below:

Headline earnings

As restated Rmillion

As originally stated Rmillion

Difference Rmillion

Reason

Headline earnings
Headline earning per share (cents) ­ Basic ­ Diluted

3 900,5
332,0 323,4

3 770,2
320,9 312,6

130,3
11,1 10,8

}

Profit on private equity realisation included in

headline earnings

The following comparatives have been reclassified:

Income statement item

As restated Rmillion

Acquisition expenses

1 481,5

As originally stated Rmillion
1 363,3

Finance cost

177,9

296,1

Difference Rmillion 118,2
(118,2)

Reason

}

Profit share paid on cell captive business

Balance sheet item Equity securities -available-for-sale
Debt securities ­ available-for-sale

As restated Rmillion
443,7

As originally stated Rmillion
793,7

350,0

­

Difference Rmillion (350,0)
350,0

Reason
} Reclassification of financial asset

Certain items on the cash flow statement were also reclassified to incorporate the effect of the above items.

41. Effective interest in subsidaries and associates
The effective interest held by RMBH in these businesses shows variations between years as a result of the consolidation by such entities of:

· Treasury shares held by them;

· Shares held in them by their staff share incentive trusts; and/or

· "Deemed" treasury shares held in them by policyholders and mutual funds managed by them; as well as

· "Deemed" treasury shares arising from BEE transactions entered into.

The effective interest held as at 30 June 2008 as recorded above can be compared to the actual interest held by RMBH in the statutory

issued share capital of the companies as follows:

Effective

Actual

* FirstRand * Discovery * OUTsurance * RMBSI * Glenrand M.I.B

32,7% 27,1% 61,9% 80,6% 15,8%

30,1% 25,0% 58,6% 76,9% 12,3%

100 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Company financial statements
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 101

Balance sheet
as at 30 June 2008
Assets
Investment in subsidiaries Investment in associates Financial assets Equity securities:
­ available-for-sale ­ at fair value through profit or loss Loans and receivables Deferred taxation Cash and cash equivalents
Total assets
Equity
Capital and reserves attributable to the Company's equity holders Share capital and premium Reserves
Total shareholders' equity
Liabilities
Financial liabilities Preference shares Interest bearing loans
Provisions Trade and other payables Deferred taxation Taxation
Total liabilities
Total equity and liabilities

Notes
2 3
4 4 5 6 7

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion
445,7 11 143,2
30,2 645,9
14,6 1,4
10,8 12 291,8

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion
345,3 7 212,3
33,8 653,2
8,8 ­
8,1 8 261,5

8

5 327,9

9

5 644,5

10 972,4

4 605,0 3 242,3
7 847,3

10

1 194,8

10

57,6

11

5,7

12

43,7

6

17,6

­

1 319,4

12 291,8

­ 354,3
5,9 27,9 19,2
6,9
414,2
8 261,5

102 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Income statement
for the year ended 30 June 2008
Investment income ­ Fair value of unbundled shares received ­ dividend in specie ­ Other income
Net fair value (losses)/gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Net income Marketing and administration expenses Result of operating activities of the Company Finance cost Profit before taxation Taxation Profit for the year Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company

Notes 13 13 14 15 16 17

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion
2 520,5 1 773,8 4 294,3
(7,3) 4 287,0
(30,3) 4 256,7
(79,5) 4 177,2
8,7 4 185,9
4 185,9

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion
­ 1 434,1 1 434,1
153,7 1 587,8
(48,5) 1 539,3
(20,9) 1 518,4
(19,6) 1 498,8
1 498,9

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 103

Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 June 2008
COMPANY
Rmillion Balance at 1 July 2006 Net profit for the year Dividends paid Share option expense reserve ­ IFRS2 Balance at 30 June 2007 Issue of shares Net profit for the year Dividends paid Share option expense reserve ­ IFRS2 Balance at 30 June 2008

Share capital
11,9 ­ ­ ­
11,9 0,2 ­ ­ ­
12,1

Share premium

Nondistributable
reserves

4 593,1 ­ ­ ­

334,8 ­ ­
1,7

4 593,1 722,7 ­ ­ ­

336,5 ­ ­ ­
0,8

5 315,8

337,3

Retained earnings
2 885,8 1 498,8 (1 478,8)
­
2 905,8 ­
4 185,9 (1 784,5)
­
5 307,2

Total equity
7 825,6 1 498,8 ( 1 478,8)
1,7
7 847,3 722,9
4 185,9 ( 1 784,5)
0,8
10 972,4

104 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 June 2008
Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations Income tax paid Dividends paid to shareholders Net cash utilised by operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Loans (granted to)/repaid by subsidiaries Net additions to investments Investment in associate companies Proceeds from redemption of preference shares Net cash used in investing activities Cash flows from financing activities Issue of preference shares Net amount of borrowings (paid)/raised Preference dividends paid Cost of funding Net cash generated from financing activities Net increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

Note A

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion
1 759,9 (8,6)
(1 782,4) (31,1)
(100,4) ­
(701,4) 3,6
(798,2)
1 180,0 (296,7)
(33,5) (17,8) 832,0
2,7 8,1 10,8

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion
1 412,9 (5,3)
(1 477,6) (70,0)
273,6 (499,4)
­ ­ (225,8)
­ 318,3
­ (20,9) 297,4
1,6 6,5 8,1

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 105

Note to the cash flow statement
for the year ended 30 June 2008
A. Cash flows from operating activities
Reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash inflow from operations: Profit before taxation Adjusted for: Fair value of unbundled shares received Impairment loss Share option expenses Finance costs Dividends accrued on preference shares in issue Fair value adjustment Changes in working capital
Current receivables and prepayments Current payables and provisions Cash generated from operations

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion

4 177,2
(2 520,5) 14,0 0,8 17,8 61,7 7,3
1,6 ­
1 759,9

1 518,4
­ 21,9
1,7 20,9
­ (153,7)
(1,3) 5,0 1 412,9

106 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Notes to the annual financial statements
for the year ended 30 June 2008

1. Property and Equipment
At 1 July 2006: Cost Accumulated depreciation
Net book amount
Year ended 30 June 2007 Opening net book amount Additions Disposals Depreciation charge
Closing net book amount
At 30 June 2007: Cost Accumulated depreciation
Net book amount
Year ended 30 June 2008 Opening net book amount Additions Disposals Depreciation charge
Closing net book amount
At 30 June 2008: Cost Accumulated amortisation
Net book amount

Land and buildings Rmillion

Computer equipment
Rmillion

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

Furniture, fittings
and office equipment
Rmillion
0,3 (0,3)
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
0,3 (0,3)
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
0,3 (0,3)
­

Motor vehicles Rmillion
­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
­ ­ ­

Total Rmillion
0,3 (0,3)
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
0,3 (0,3)
­
­ ­ ­ ­ ­
0,3 (0,3)
­

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 107

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

2. Investment in subsidiaries
Shares at cost Interest bearing loans granted Interest free loans granted
Investment in subsidiares
Directors' valuation: Unlisted

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion
116,0 90,0
239,7 445,7
3 128,3

Name of company
OUTsurance Holdings Limited* RMBSI Investments (Pty) Limited** Phed Investments (Pty) Limited London & Dominion Trust Limited
* Direct holding of 46,6% (after consolidation of share trust), indirect holding through FirstRand Limited 15,3%. ** After consolidation of share trust.

Number of shares
1 584 225 400 200 000 000 100 500 000

3. Investment in associates
Shares at cost Fair value of unbundled shares received ­ dividend in specie Impairment loss
The impairment loss relates to Glenrand M.I.B Limited as the fair value of the investment is lower that the carrying value. Market values: Listed

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion
8 658,6 2 520,5
(35,9) 11 143,2
25 789,9

The Group's interests in its associates were as follows:
Name of company
FirstRand Limited Discovery Holdings Limited Glenrand M.I.B Limited
* After consolidation of share trusts.
Phed Investments (Pty) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary, holds the following shares:
Name of company
FirstRand Limited Discovery Holdings Limited

Number of shares 1 677 291 222 147 062 877 35 892 605
Number of shares 17 552 393 985 291

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion
116,0 ­
229,3 345,3
2 768,8 % of equity
46,6 80,6 100,0 100,0
COMPANY 2007
Rmillion
7 234,2 ­
(21,9) 7 212,3
38 353,4
% of equity 32,4* 26,9* 15,8*

108 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion

4. Financial assets ­ equity securities
The Company's financial assets are summarised by measurement category in the table below. Available-for-sale Fair value through profit or loss

30,2 645,9

33,8 653,2

676,1

687,0

The current portion of financial assets is R645,9 million (2007: R653,2 million), the remaining being non-current.

The assets comprised in each of the categories above are detailed in the tables below.

Available-for-sale financial assets Equity securities ­ unlisted preference shares

30,2

33,8

The investments are held to redemption and are carried at cost, which equals redemption value and approximates fair value. The preference shares are redeemable at any time but not later than 31 December 2014 with the notice period being five business days. Accrued dividends are disclosed as accrued investment income. The dividend yield is 13,7% per annum.

Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Equity securities ­ listed
Designated upon initial recognition ­ foreign

645,9

653,2

Listed equity securities are ordinary listed shares traded in organised financial markets. The carrying amount represents the quoted bid prices on these markets at the close of business on the last day of the financial year.

Availablefor-sale Rmillion

Fair value through
profit or loss Rmillion

Total Rmillon

At the beginning of 2007 Additions Interest accrued at effective yield Redemptions/disposals Coupon payments received Fair value net gains

33,8

­

33,8

­

499,5

499,5

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

153,7

153,7

At the end of 2007 Additions Interest accrued at effective yield Redemptions Coupon payments received Fair value net losses

33,8 ­ ­
(3,6) ­ ­

653,2 ­ ­ ­ ­
(7,3)

687,0 ­ ­
(3,6) ­
(7,3)

At the end of 2008

30,2

645,9

676,1

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 109

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion

5. Financial assets ­ loans and receivables
Accrued investment income Income tax receivable Other receivables
All loans and receivables are current.

7,0

3,2

7,3

­

0,3

5,6

14,6

8,8

6. Deferred taxation
Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current taxation assets against current taxation liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same fiscal authority.

Deferred taxation asset at the beginning of the year Deferred tax credit for the year (see note 17)

­

­

1,4

­

Deferred taxation asset at the end of the year

1,4

­

Deferred taxation liability at the beginning of the year Deferred tax (credit)/charge for the year (see note 17)
Deferred taxation liability at the end of the year

19,2

­

(1,6)

19,2

17,6

19,2

The net deferred taxation asset at the end of the year can be analysed as follows: STC Credit
The net deferred taxation liability at the end of the year can be analysed as follows: Unrealised investment gains and losses included in income
Deferred income taxation assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit is probable.

1,4

­

1,4

­

17,6

19,2

17,6

19,2

7. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and on hand

10,8

8,1

Cash and cash equivalents represent current accounts, call deposits and short-term fixed deposits with large banks in South Africa.

110 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Number of shares
million

Ordinary shares
Rmillion

Share premium Rmillion

Total Rmillion

8. Share capital and premium
At 1 July 2006 Movement in share capital and premium

1 187,8 ­

11,9

4 593,1

4 605,0

­

­

­

At 30 June 2007 Movement in share capital and premium

1 187,8 21,3

11,9

4 593,1

4 605,0

0,2

722,7

722,9

At 30 June 2008

1 209,1

12,1

5 315,8

5 327,9

The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 2 000 000 000 (2007: 2 000 000 000), with a par value of one cent per share (2007: one cent). During the year 21 302 886 ordinary shares were issued, with a par value of one cent per share, at a premium of R33,93 per share. 10% of the unissued share capital is under the control of the board of directors until the forthcoming annual general meeting.

The total authorised number of redeemable cumulative preference shares is 100 000 000 (2007: 100 000 000), with a par value of one cent per share (2006: one cent). The company issued 11 800 redeemable cumulative preference shares, with a par value of one cent, at a premium of R99 999,99 per share on 3 January 2008.

9. Reserves
Distributable reserves Retained earnings Non-distributable reserves ­ other Share based payments reserve Capital surpluses on disposals and restructuring of strategic investments
Total reserves

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion

5 307,2
3,9 333,4 337,3 5 644,5

2 905,8
3,1 333,4 336,5 3 242,3

10. Financial liabilities
Fixed rate cumulative redeemable preference shares At beginning of year 7 800 (2007: Nil) Preference shares issued

­

­

780,0

­

At end of year

780,0

­

The Company issued 7 800 fixed rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, with a par value of one cent, at a premium of R99 999,99 per share on 3 January 2008. The preference shares are redeemable at the discretion of the Company at any time and compulsorily redeemable on 27 November 2012. The preference shares pay dividends, bi-annually, at a fixed rate of 8,55% per annum.

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 111

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008
10. Financial liabilities (continued)
Variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares At beginning of year 4 000 (2007: Nil) Preference shares issued Dividends capitalised At end of year The Company issued 4 000 variable rate cumulative redeemable preference shares, with a par value of one cent, at a premium of R99 999,99 per share on 3 January 2008. The preference shares are redeemable at the discretion of the Company at any time and compulsorily redeemable on 27 November 2012. Preference shares of R270 million accrue dividends at a rate of 63,5% of the prime interest rate, which is capitalised. The remaining preference shares of R130 million pay dividends, bi-annually, at a rate of 63,5% of the prime interest rate. Interest bearing loans
The Company financed its obligations by means of a loan obtained from Rand Merchant Bank, a division of FirstRand Bank Limited. The loan is unsecured and bears interest at a rate linked to the prime interest rate. In terms of the Articles of Association the directors have unlimited borrowing powers.
11. Provisions
Staff incentive bonus Balance at the beginning of the year Additional provisions Unutilised provisions reversed Utilised during the year Balance at the end of the year All amounts are expected to be settled in 12 months.
12. Trade and other payables
Trade payables and accrued expenses Accrued redeemable preference share dividends Unclaimed dividends
13. Investment income
Available-for-sale: ­ dividend income Dividend income from subsidiaries and associates Interest income on loan to subsidiary Cash and cash equivalents interest income Fair value of unbundled shares received ­ dividend in specie

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion

­

­

400,0

­

14,8

­

414,8

­

57,6

354,3

57,6

354,3

5,9

4,0

5,7

5,9

­

­

(5,9)

(4,0)

5,7

5,9

20,4

20,1

13,4

­

9,9

7,8

43,7

27,9

5,9 1 762,4
5,5 ­
2 520,5
4 294,3

4,8 1 428,2
­ 1,1
­
1 434,1

112 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

14. Net fair value (losses)/gains on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Fair value gains Fair value losses
Net fair value gains and losses comprise: Equity securities
Dividend income Interest income Unrealised mark to market Realised mark to market Debt securities Unrealised mark to market Realised mark to market
Total net fair value (losses)/gains
15. Marketing and administration expenses
Expenses by nature: Depreciation Professional fees and regulatory compliance cost Insurance Operating lease rentals Impairment loss Audit fees Other expenses
Audit fees Statutory audit ­ current year Statutory audit ­ under provision prior year Other services
16. Finance costs
Interest paid on bank borrowings Dividends on redeemable preference shares

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion
­ (7,3) (7,3)
(7,3) ­ ­
(7,3) ­ ­ ­ ­
(7,3)
­ (2,2) (0,2) (1,1) (14,0) (0,6) (12,2) (30,3)
(0,6) ­ ­
(0,6)
(17,8) (61,7) (79,5)

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion
153,7 ­
153,7
153,7 ­ ­
153,3 0,4 ­ ­ ­
153,7
­ (1,6) (0,2) (1,0) (21,9) (0,8) (23,0) (48,5)
(0,5) (0,3)
­ (0,8)
(20,9) ­
(20,9)

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 113

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

17. Taxation
SA normal taxation Current tax Current year Previous year Deferred tax Current year Secondary tax on companies Tax rate adjustment Secondary tax on companies ­ current
The tax on the Company's profits before taxation differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory tax rate of South Africa as follows:
Profit before taxation
Statutory tax rate Net income and expenses not subject to tax Prior year adjustment Recognition of deferred tax asset Recognition of deferred tax liability Secondary tax on companies
Effective tax rate

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion

(1,3) 13,2
0,9 1,4 0,7 (6,2)
8,7

(1,2) 6,5
(19,2) ­ ­
(5,7)
(19,6)

4 177,2
% 28,00 (27,97) (0,32) (0,07)
­ 0,15
(0,21)

1 518,4
% 29,00 (28,92) (0,43)
­ 1,26 0,38
1,29

18. Dividend per share
Total dividends paid during the year Total dividends declared during the year Number of ordinary shares in issue Dividends declared per share (cents)

1 784,5 1 710,9 1 209 111 456
141,5

1 478,8 1 680,7 1 187 808 570
141,5

19. Related parties
Principal shareholders Details of major shareholders are disclosed in the directors' report. The principal shareholders are Remgro Limited, Mr Dippenaar and Mr Ferreira.
Key management personnel Only RMBH's directors are key management personnel. Information on directors' emoluments and their shareholding in the Company appears in the directors' report.
Subsidiaries Details of investments in subsidiaries are disclosed in note 2.
RMBSI paid RMBH a guarantee fee of R4,7 million for surety provided by RMBH in respect of a loan obtained by RMBSI.
Associates Details of investments in associates are disclosed in note 3.
Other RMBH invested in preference shares issued by New Seasons Financial Services (Pty) Limited ("NSFS"). NSFS is a shareholder of RMB Structured Insurance Limited.

114 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

19. Related parties (continued)
Related party transactions Transactions of RMB Holdings Limited with: Principal shareholders Dividends paid
During the current year the Company acquired 27 008 590 Discovery Holdings Limited shares from Remgro Limited. The purchase consideration was settled through the issue of 21 302 886 ordinary shares to Remgro Limited.
Key management personnel Salaries and other benefits Directors' fees
Subsidiaries Income statement effect:
Dividends received Guarantee fee received Investment income
Balance sheet effect: Loan granted Receivables
Associates Income statement effect:
Dividends received Fair value of unbundled shares received ­ dividend in specie Administration fee income Preference dividends Finance costs
Balance sheet effect Investment in associate Cash and cash equivalents Preference shares Trade and other payables Interest bearing loans Balance 1 July Borrowing (repaid)/raised Capitalised interest
Balance 30 June
During the current year the Company acquired 25 900 718 Discovery Holdings Limited shares from the FirstRand Group.
Other Income statement effect
Investment income
Balance sheet effect: Financial assets ­ available-for-sale Loans and receivables

COMPANY 2008
Rmillion

COMPANY 2007
Rmillion

687,6

562,3

7,5 1,2
267,3 4,7 5,5
90,0 5,5
1 495,1 2 520,5
­ 61,7 17,8
2 520,5 10,8
1 194,8 13,5
354,3 (314,5)
17,8 57,6

7,5 0,8
195,4 3,5 ­
­ ­
1 232,8 ­
2,5 ­
20,9
­ 8,1
­ ­
36,0 297,4
20,9 354,3

5,9

4,8

30,2

33,8

1,5

3,2

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 115

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

20. Contingent liabilities
Company The following contingencies and guarantees exist at 30 June 2008: ­ A guarantee provided in respect of funding facilities of a subsidiary for an amount not exceeding R400 million.
21. Retirement benefits
The Company is a participant in a defined contribution pension fund and a defined contribution provident fund.
To the extent that the Company is responsible for contributions to these funds, such contributions are charged against income as incurred. The funds are registered in terms of the Pension Funds Act, 1956.
22. Financial risk management
The Company is exposed to various financial risks in connection with its current operating activities, such as market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.

Market risk
The risk that the fair value or future cash flow of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.

Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that the value of a financial instrument denominated in a currency other than the reporting currency may fluctuate due to changes in the foreign currency exchange rate between the reporting currency and the currency in which such instrument is denominated.

The Company's exposure to currency risk is mainly in respect of foreign investments made. The Company has invested in a financial services emerging market portfolio.

The operations as described expose the Company to foreign currency risk. The board monitors these exposures on a quarterly basis. Any significant changes in the foreign currency balances are followed up throughout the year and are reported to the board.

The table below lists the Company's exposure to foreign currency risk:

As at 30 June 2008 ­ Rmillion

Rand

United States Dollar

Total

Equity securities ­ at fair value through profit or loss Other assets

­ 11 645,8

645,9 0,1

645,9 11 645,9

Total assets

11 645,8

646,0

12 291,8

Exchange rates: Closing rate at 30 June Average rate for the year

7,827 7,288

As at 30 June 2007 ­ Rmillion
Equity securities ­ at fair value through profit or loss Other assets
Total assets
Exchange rates: Closing rate at 30 June Average rate for the year

Rand ­
7 608,3 7 608,3

United States Dollar 653,2 ­ 653,2
7,038 7,186

Total 653,2 7 608,3 8 261,5

116 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

22. Financial risk management (continued)
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is when the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuates because of changes in market interest rates.

The table below reflects the Company's exposure to interest rate risk. An increase or decrease in the market interest rate would result in the following changes in the profit before tax of the Company:

200bps Increase
2008 Rmillion

200bps Decrease
2008 Rmillion

200bps Increase
2007 Rmillion

200bps Decrease
2007 Rmillion

Cash and cash equivalents Financial liabilities
Preference shares Interest bearing loans

0,2

(0,2)

0,2

(0,2)

(8,3)

8,3

­

­

(1,2)

1,2

(7,1)

7,1

Other price risk Equity price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices, whether those changes are caused by factors specific to the individual financial instrument or its issuer, or factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.

Equity securities are mandated to stockbrokers and asset managers. Asset managers' mandates include benchmarks against which performance is measured based on fee structures. The board monitors the performance of the investment on a quarterly basis.

The table below reflects the Company's exposure to equity price risk on equity securities at fair value through profit or loss. A hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the equity prices would result in the following changes in the profit before tax of the Company:

10% Increase
2008 Rmillion

10% Decrease
2008 Rmillion

10% Increase
2007 Rmillion

10% Decrease
2007 Rmillion

Financial assets Listed equity shares

64,6

(64,6)

65,3

(65,3)

Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. The key areas where the Company is exposed to credit risk are:
­ Unlisted preference shares;
­ Loans and receivables; and
­ Cash and cash equivalents.
Significant concentrations of credit risk, if applicable, are disclosed in the financial statements. The credit exposure to any one counterparty is managed by the board of directors and by setting transaction/exposure limits, which are reviewed at each board and audit committee meeting. The table below provides information on the credit risk exposure by credit rating at year end (if available):

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 117

Notes to the annual financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 June 2008

Rmillion

A

Not rated

Total

22. Financial risk management (continued)
At 30 June 2008 Equity securities ­ available-for-sale ­ unlisted Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents

­

30,2

30,2

­

14,6

14,6

10,8

­

10,8

10,8

44,8

55,6

At 30 June 2007 Equity securities ­ available-for-sale ­ unlisted Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents

­

33,8

33,8

­

8,8

8,8

8,1

­

8,1

8,1

42,6

50,7

The rating was obtained from Fitch. The rating is based on long-term investment horizons. The rating is defined as follows:

Long-term Investment grade: A The financial instrument is considered upper-medium grade and is subject to low credit risk although certain economic situations can more
readily affect the issuers' financial soundness adversely than those rated AAA or AA.

Not rated The credit exposure for the assets listed above is considered acceptable by the board even though certain assets do not have a formal rating.

Liquidity risk and asset liability matching
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities. The Company's liabilities are matched by appropriate assets and it has significant liquid resources to cover its obligations. The Company's liquidity and ability to meet its obligations are monitored quarterly at the board meetings.

30 June 2008 ­ Rmillion

Total

0­6 months

7 ­ 12 months

1­5 years

No-liquidity

5 years

risk

Liabilities Financial liabilities
Preference shares Interest bearing loans Provisions Trade and other payables Deferred taxation liabilities Taxation

1 672,0 57,6 5,7 43,7 17,6 ­

39,7 57,6
5,7 43,7
­ ­

39,7

1 592,6

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

17,6

­

­

Total liabilities

1 796,6

146,7

39,7

1 592,6

­

17,6

30 June 2007 ­ Rmillion
Liabilities Financial liabilities
Interest bearing loans Provisions Trade and other payables Deferred taxation liabilities Taxation
Total liabilities

Total

0­6 months

7 ­ 12 months

354,3

354,3

­

5,9

5,9

­

27,9

27,9

­

19,2

­

­

6,9

6,9

­

414,2

395,0

­

1­5 years

5 years

No-liquidity risk

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

­

19,2

­

­

­

­

­

19,2

118 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Notice of annual general meeting
RMB HOLDINGS LIMITED
(Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa) (Registration number: 1987/005115/06) Share Code: RMH ISIN: ZAE000024501 ("RMBH" or "the Company") Notice is hereby given of the twenty first annual general meeting of the shareholders of RMB Holdings Limited to be held in the executive boardroom, 4th floor, 4 Merchant Place, corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road, Sandton on Friday, 28 November 2008 at 09:00 to, if approved, pass the following resolutions with or without modifications:
AGENDA
1. Ordinary resolution number 1 Approval of annual financial statements Resolved that the audited annual financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 30 June 2008 be accepted and approved.
2. Ordinary resolution number 2 Re-election of directors To appoint directors in the positions of the under-mentioned directors who retire in terms of the Company's Articles of Association and who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
2.1 Patrick Maguire Goss (60) Independent non-executive director Date of appointment: 12 November 1987 Educational qualifications: BEcon (Hons), BAccSc (Hons), CA(SA) Directorships: FirstRand Limited, AVI Limited
2.2 Paul Kenneth Harris (58) Non-executive director Date of appointment: 1 July 1992 Educational qualifications: MCom Directorships: FirstRand Limited, Remgro Limited
2.3 Khehla Cleopas Shubane (52) Independent non-executive director Date of appointment: 25 November 1993 Educational qualifications: BA (Hons), MBA Directorships: FirstRand Limited
3. Ordinary resolution number 3 Election of directors To elect directors appointed during the year who retire in terms of the Company's Articles of Association and who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
3.1 Leon Crouse (55) Non-executive director Date of appointment: 13 September 2008 Educational qualifications: CA(SA) Directorships: FirstRand Limited, Remgro Limited
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 119

Notice of annual general meeting (continued)

3.2 Sonja Emilia Ncumisa Sebotsa (36) Independent non-executive director Date of appointment: 15 February 2008 Educational qualifications: LLB (Hons) LSE, MA (McGill), SFA Directorships: Discovery Holdings Limited, Makalani Holdings Limited, Anglo Platinum Limited, Paracon Holdings Limited

4. Ordinary resolution number 4 Approval of directors' remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2008 Resolved that the remuneration of the directors as reflected on page 28 of the annual report be approved.

5. Ordinary resolution number 5 Approval of directors' fees for the year ending 30 June 2009 Resolved that the directors' fees for the year ending 30 June 2009, as set out below, are approved:
Board (4 meetings per annum) ­ Chairman ­ Director Audit Committee ( 2 meetings per annum) ­ Chairman ­ Member Ad hoc meetings (per hour)

Per annum
R315 000 R105 000
R57 750 R28 875
R2 520

6. Ordinary resolution number 6
Place 15% of the authorised but unissued ordinary shares under the control of the directors Resolved that 15% of the authorised but unissued ordinary shares in the Company (currently representing approximately 10% of the total issued ordinary shares of the Company), be and are hereby placed under the control of the directors as a general authority until the forthcoming annual general meeting and that they be and are hereby authorised to allot and issue shares in the Company upon such terms and conditions as the directors in their discretion deem fit, subject to the Companies Act (Act 61 of 1973), as amended ("the Companies Act"), the Articles of Association of the Company and the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited ("JSE"), when applicable.

7. Ordinary resolution number 7 General authority to issue ordinary shares for cash Resolved that the board of directors of the Company be hereby authorised, by way of a renewable general authority, to issue ordinary shares in the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company for cash as and when they in their discretion deem fit, subject to the Companies Act, the Articles of Association of the Company and the Listings Requirements of the JSE, when applicable, and the following limitations, namely that:
· this authority shall be valid until the Company's next annual general meeting or for 15 months from the date of this resolution, whichever period is shorter;
· the ordinary shares which are the subject of the issue for cash must be of a class already in issue, or where this is not the case, must be limited to such securities or rights that are convertible into a class already in issue;
· the ordinary shares must be issued to public shareholders as defined by the JSE Listings Requirements and not related parties;
· the ordinary shares which are the subject of the issue for cash may not exceed 10% in the aggregate in any one financial year of the number of equity shares in issue of that class;
· a maximum discount at which the ordinary shares may be issued is 10% of the weighted average traded price of the Company's ordinary shares measured over 30 business days prior to the date that the price of the issue is determined or agreed by the directors of the Company and the party subscribing for the securities; and
· a paid press announcement giving full details, including the impact on net asset value and earnings per share, will be published at the time of any issue representing, on a cumulative basis within one financial year, 5% or more of the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to that issue, in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements.

120 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Approval for this ordinary resolution is obtained by achieving a 75% majority of the votes cast in favour of this resolution at the annual general meeting by all equity security holders present or represented by proxy. 8. Ordinary resolution number 8 Approval of re-appointment of auditors Resolved that, as recommended by the Audit and Risk committee, PricewaterhouseCoopers Inc. be re-appointed as auditors of the Company until the next annual general meeting and Fulvio Tonelli, as the individual registered auditor, who will undertake the audit for the Company for the ensuing year.
9. Special resolution number 1 General authority to repurchase Company shares Resolved that in terms of the Company's Articles of Association, the Company's directors be hereby authorised, by way of a general authority, to repurchase issued shares in the Company or to permit a subsidiary of the Company to purchase shares in the Company, as and when deemed appropriate, subject to the following initiatives:
· that this authority shall be valid until the Company's next annual general meeting provided that it shall not extend beyond fifteen (15) months from the date of passing of this special resolution;
· that any such repurchase be effected through the order book operated by the JSE trading system and done without any prior understanding or arrangement between the Company and the counterparty (reported trades are prohibited);
· that a paid press release giving such details as may be required in terms of the JSE Listings Requirements be published when the Company or its subsidiaries have repurchased in aggregate 3% of the initial number of shares in issue, as at the time that the general authority was granted, and for each 3% in aggregate of the initial number of shares which is acquired thereafter;
· that a general repurchase may not in aggregate in any one financial year exceed 10% of the number of shares in the Company's issued share capital as at the beginning of the financial year, provided that a subsidiary of the Company may not hold at any one time more than 10% of the number of issued shares of the Company;
· that no repurchases will be effected during a prohibited period unless there is in place a repurchase programme where the dates and quantities of securities to be traded during the relevant period are fixed (not subject to any variation) and full details of the programme have been disclosed in an announcement over SENS prior to the commencement of the prohibited period;
· that at any point in time, the Company may only appoint one agent to effect repurchases on the Company's behalf;
· that the Company may only undertake a repurchase of securities if, after such repurchase the Company still complies with the JSE Listings Requirements concerning shareholder spread requirements;
· that, in determining the price at which shares may be repurchased in terms of this authority, the maximum premium permitted be 10% above the weighted average traded price of the shares as determined over the five (5) business days prior to the date of repurchase;
· the sponsor to the Company provides a letter to the JSE on the adequacy of working capital in terms of section 2.12 of the JSE Listings Requirements prior to any repurchases being implemented on the open market of the JSE; and
· that such repurchase shall be subject to the Companies Act and the applicable provisions of the JSE Listings Requirements.
The Board has no immediate intention to use this authority to repurchase Company shares. However, the Board is of the opinion that this authority should be in place should it become appropriate to undertake a share repurchase in the future.
Having considered the effect in the event that the maximum allowed repurchase is effected, the directors are of the opinion that:
· the Company and the Group will be able in the ordinary course of business to pay its debts for a period of 12 months after the date of the repurchase;
· the assets of the Company and the Group will be in excess of the liabilities of the Company and the Group for a period of 12 months after the date of the repurchase. The assets and liabilities have been recognised and measured for this purpose in accordance with the accounting policies used in the latest audited annual Group financial statements;
· the Company's and the Group's ordinary share capital and reserves will be sufficient for ordinary business purposes for a period of 12 months after the date of the repurchase; and
· the Company and the Group will have sufficient working capital to meet their needs for a period of 12 months after the date of the repurchase.
RMBH annual report ­ 2008 121

Notice of annual general meeting (continued)
Reason for and effect of the special resolution number 1 The reason for and the effect of the special resolution is to grant the Company's directors a general authority, up to and including the date of the following annual general meeting of the Company, to approve the Company's purchase of shares in itself, or to permit a subsidiary of the Company to purchase shares in the Company. The effect of special resolution number 1 is to grant a general authority to the Company's directors accordingly. For purposes of considering the special resolution and in compliance with Rule 11.26 of the JSE Listings Requirements, the information listed below has been included in the annual report, in which this notice of annual general meeting is included, at the places indicated: · Directors and management ­ refer pages 26 and 27; · Major shareholders ­ refer page 34; · Material changes ­ refer page 35; · Directors' interest in securities ­ refer page 28; · Share capital of the Company ­ refer page 34; · The directors, whose names are set out on pages 26 and 27 of this report, collectively and individually accept full responsibility for the
accuracy of the information contained in this special resolution and certify that to the best of their knowledge and belief that there are no other facts, the omission of which would make any statement false or misleading, and that they have made all reasonable enqueries in this regard and that this resolution contains all information required by the JSE Listings Requirements; and · Litigation ­ There are no legal or arbitration proceedings (including any such proceedings that are pending or threatened of which the Company is aware) which may have or have had in the previous 12 months, a material effect on the Group's financial position.
10. To transact any other business that may be transacted at an annual general meeting
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ATTENDANCE AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING. General Shareholders wishing to attend the annual general meeting have to ensure beforehand with the Transfer Secretaries of the Company that their shares are in fact registered in their name. Certificated and "own name" dematerialised shareholders Shareholders who have not dematerialised their shares or who have dematerialised their shares with "own name" registration are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote in their stead. The person so appointed need not be a shareholder. Proxy forms must be forwarded to reach the registered office of the Company or the Company's transfer secretaries, Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited at 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107) or at fax number 011 688 5238 so as to be received by them no later than 09:00 on Wednesday, 26 November 2008. Dematerialised shareholders other than with "own name" registration Shareholders who have dematerialised their shares, other than those shareholders who have dematerialised their shares with "own name" registration, should contact their Central Securities Depository Participant ("CSDP") or broker in the manner and time stipulated in their agreement: · to furnish them with their voting instructions; and · in the event that they wish to attend the meeting, to obtain the necessary authority to do so. On a show of hands, every shareholder of the Company present in person or represented by proxy shall have one vote only. On a poll, every shareholder of the Company shall have one vote for every share held in the Company by such shareholder. Votes of holders of unlisted securities will not be taken into account in determining either a quorum or for approval of any resolutions considered at the annual general meeting. By order of the board of directors AL Maher BCompt (Hons), CA(SA) Company Secretary 10 October 2008
122 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Shareholders' information*
for the year ended 30 June 2008
Analysis of shareholding
Major shareholders (owners) holding more than 5% Financial Securities Limited (Remgro) Public Investment Corporation LL Dippenaar (direct and indirect) GT Ferreira (direct and indirect)
Shareholders holding less than 5% each Total shareholders
Shareholder type Corporates Pension funds Insurance companies Unit trusts Private investors Other managed funds Total shareholders
Public and non-public shareholders Public Non-public
­ Corporates (Remgro) ­ Directors ­ FirstRand share trust Total
Geographic ownership South Africa International Total
* Extracted from shareholder analysis provided by Orient Capital Limited.
Performance on the JSE Limited
Number of shares in issue (000's)* Market prices (cents per share)
Closing* High** Low** Weighted average** Closing price/net asset value per share* Closing price/earnings (headline)* Volume of shares traded (millions)** Value of shares traded (Rmillions)** Market capitalisation (Rmillions)*
* as at 30 June ** for the year

Shares held

(000's)

%

Number of shareholders
24 640
1 7 1 24 649

302 279 103 370
90 342 87 191 583 182 625 929 1 209 111
518 015 206 395
48 910 208 455 221 136
6 200 1 209 111
Shares held (000's)
677 894
302 279 221 845
7 093 1 209 111
Shares held (000's)
1 139 588 69 523
1 209 111
2008 1 209 111
2 100 3 900 2 035 2 964
1,3 6,7 469 13 899 25 391

25,0 8,6 7,5 7,2
48,3 51,7 100,0
42,8 17,1
4,1 17,2 18,3
0,5 100,0
%
56,1
25,0 18,3
0,6 100,0
%
94,3 5,7
100,0
2007 1 187 809
3 286 3 850 2 335 3 084
2,3 9,9 334 10 310 39 031

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 123

Shareholders' diary
Reporting
Interim for 2009 ­ Announcement of results Final for 2009 ­ Announcement of results for 2009 ­ Annual report posted by ­ Annual general meeting

31 December 2008 End February 2009
30 June 2009 Mid-September 2009
End October 2009 End November 2009

Dividends
Interim for 2009 ­ Declared ­ Payable
Final for 2009 ­ Declared ­ Payable

End February 2009 End March 2009
Mid-September 2009 End October 2009

Administration

RMB HOLDINGS LIMITED
(Registration No 1987/005115/06) Share code: RMH ISIN ZAE000024501 ("RMBH")

Company Secretary AL Maher, BCompt(Hons), CA(SA)

Registered office 4th floor 4 Merchant Place Corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road Sandton 2196

Postal address PO Box 786273 Sandton 2146

Telephone National International

(011) 282 8000 +27 11 282 8000

Telefax National International

(011) 282 8088 +27 11 282 8088

Website www.rmbh.co.za

Auditors
PricewaterhouseCoopers Incorporated 2 Eglin Road Sunninghill 2157

124 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Sponsor (In terms of JSE Listings Requirements)
Rand Merchant Bank (A division of FirstRand Bank Limited) 1 Merchant Place Corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road Sandton 2196

Telephone National International

(011) 282 8000 +27 11 282 8000

Telefax National International

(011) 282 8008 +27 11 282 8008

Transfer secretaries
Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001

Postal address PO Box 61051 Marshalltown 2107

Telephone National International

(011) 370 5000 +27 11 370 5000

Telefax National International

(011) 688 5221 +27 11 688 5221

Form of proxy

Only for use by shareholders who have not dematerialised their shares or who have dematerialised their shares with "own name" registration.

RMB HOLDINGS LIMITED
(Incorporated in the Republic of South Africa) (Registration number: 1987/005115/06) Share Code: RMH ISIN: ZAE000024501 ("RMBH or "the Company")

For use by shareholders, who have not dematerialised their shares or who have dematerialised their shares but with own name registration, at the annual general meeting to be held at 09:00 on Friday, 28 November 2008, in the Executive Boardroom, 4th floor, 4 Merchant Place, Corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road, Sandton, and at any adjournment thereof.
Shareholders who have dematerialised their shares other than with own name registration, must inform their CSDP or broker of their intention to attend the annual general meeting and request their CSDP or broker to issue them with the necessary authorisation to attend or they must provide their CSDP or broker with their voting instructions should they not wish to attend the annual general meeting in person.

I/We, the undersigned (name)

of (address)

the registered holder of

ordinary shares in RMB Holdings Limited (Reg No 1987/005115/06), hereby appoint

1.

, of

or failing him

2.

, of

or failing him

3. the chairperson of the meeting, as my/our proxy to be present and act on my/our behalf, speak and on a poll, vote on my/our behalf as indicated below at the annual general meeting of shareholders of the Company to be held at 09:00 on Friday, 28 November 2008 and at any adjournment thereof as follows: (see Note 2)

Insert an "X" or the number of votes exercisable (one vote per ordinary share)

In favour of

Against

Abstain

Ordinary resolution number 1 Approval of annual financial statements

Ordinary resolution number 2 Re-election of the following directors: 2.1 Patrick Maguire Goss 2.2 Paul Kenneth Harris 2.3 Khehla Cleopas Shubane

Ordinary resolution number 3 Election of the following directors: 3.1 Leon Crouse 3.2 Sonja Emilia Ncumisa Sebotsa

Ordinary resolution number 4 Approval of directors' remuneration for the year to June 2008

Ordinary resolution number 5 Approval of directors' fees for the year to June 2009

Ordinary resolution number 6 Place 15% of the unissued ordinary shares under the control of the directors

Ordinary resolution number 7 General authority to issue ordinary shares for cash

Ordinary resolution number 8 Approval of re-appointment of auditors

Special resolution number 1 General authority to repurchase Company shares

Instructions to my/our proxy are indicated by a cross in the space provided above or by the number of shares in the appropriate boxes where all shares held are not being voted.
2008

Signature of registered shareholder (assisted by me as applicable)

Date

PLEASE SEE NOTES ON REVERSE SIDE OF THE FORM

RMBH annual report ­ 2008 125

Explanatory notes to the notice of annual general meeting
Notes:
1. A shareholder, who is entitled to attend and vote at the annual general meeting, may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote in his/her stead. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
2. Every shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at the annual general meeting of the Company shall, on a show of hands, have one vote only, irrespective of the number of shares such shareholder holds, but in the event of a poll, every ordinary share in the Company shall have one vote.
3. Dematerialised shareholders registered in their own names are shareholders who appointed Computershare Custodial Services as their Central Securities Depository Participant (CSDP) with the express instruction that their uncertificated shares are to be registered in the electronic subregister of members in their own names.
Instructions on signing and lodging the proxy form:
1. A shareholder may insert the name of a proxy or the names of two alternative proxies of the shareholders choice in the space/s provided overleaf, with or without deleting "the chairman of the annual general meeting", but any such deletion must be initialled by the shareholder. Should this space be left blank, the chairman of the annual general meeting will exercise the proxy. The person whose name appears first on the proxy form and who is present at the annual general meeting will be entitled to act as proxy to the exclusion of those whose names follow.
2. A shareholder's voting instructions to the proxy must be indicated by the insertion of the number of votes exercisable by that shareholder in the appropriate spaces provided overleaf. Failure to do so shall be deemed to authorise the proxy to vote or to abstain from voting at the annual general meeting, as he/she thinks fit in respect of all the shareholder's exercisable votes. A shareholder or his/her proxy is not obliged to use all the votes exercisable by his/her proxy, but the total number of votes cast, or those in respect of which abstention is recorded, may not exceed the total number of votes exercisable by the member or by his/her proxy.
3. A minor must be assisted by his/her parent or guardian unless the relevant documents establishing his/her legal capacity are produced or have been registered by the transfer secretaries.
4. To be valid the completed proxy forms must be forwarded to reach the Company's transfer secretaries, Computershare Investor Services (Pty) Limited, at 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg, 2001 (PO Box 61051, Marshalltown, 2107) or at fax number 011 688 5238 to be received by no later than 09:00 on Wednesday, 26 November 2008. Proxy forms may only be completed by shareholders who have not dematerialised their shares or who have dematerialised their shares with "own name" registration.
5. Documentary evidence establishing the authority of a person signing this proxy form in a representative capacity must be attached to this proxy form unless previously recorded by the transfer secretaries or waived by the chairman of the annual general meeting.
6. The completion and lodging of this proxy form shall not preclude the relevant shareholder from attending the annual general meeting and speaking and voting in person thereat to the exclusion of any proxy appointed in terms hereof, should such shareholder wish to do so.
7. The completion of any blank spaces overleaf need not be initialed. Any alterations or corrections to this proxy form must be initialled by the signatory/ies.
8. The chairman of the annual general meeting may reject or accept any proxy form which is completed other than in accordance with these instructions provided that he is satisfied as to the manner in which a shareholder wishes to vote.
126 RMBH annual report ­ 2008

Contact details
RMBH
4th Floor, 4 Merchant Place Corner Fredman Drive & Rivonia Road, Sandton PO Box 786273, Sandton, 2146 Telephone (011) 282 1010 Telefax (011) 282 8088 www.rmbh.co.za Contact: Anthony Maher
FirstRand
4th Floor, 4 Merchant Place Corner Fredman Drive & Rivonia Road, Sandton PO Box 786273, Sandton, 2146 Telephone (011) 282 8052 Telefax (011) 282 8088 www.firstrand.co.za Contact: Adrian Arnott
Discovery
155 West Street, Sandton PO Box 786722, Sandton, 2146 Telephone (011) 529 2888 Telefax (011) 529 2958 www.discovery.co.za Contact: Thys Botha
www.rmbh.co.za

Glenrand M.I.B
288 Kent Avenue, Ferndale, Randburg PO Box 2544, Randburg, 2125 Telephone (011) 329 1111 Telefax (011) 329 1333 www.glenrandmib.co.za Contact: Ms Elva Price
OUTsurance
1241 Embankment Street, Zwartkop Ext 7, Centurion PO Box 8443, Centurion, 0046 Telephone (012) 673 3098 Telefax (012) 673 4598 www.outsurance.co.za Contact: Willem Roos
RMB Structured Insurance
4th Floor, 2 Merchant Place Corner Fredman Drive and Rivonia Road, Sandton PO Box 652659, Benmore, 2010 Telephone (011) 685 7600 Telefax (011) 784 9858 Contact: Gustavo Arroyo

www.rmbh.co.za

